Since it is the privilege of the lawyer for the defense to address thejury first, Steger bowed politely to his colleague and came forward.Putting his hands on the jury-box rail, he began in a very quiet,modest, but impressive way:“Gentlemen of the jury, my client, Mr. Frank Algernon Cowperwood, awell-known banker and financier of this city, doing business in ThirdStreet, is charged by the State of Pennsylvania, represented by thedistrict attorney of this district, with fraudulently transferring fromthe treasury of the city of Philadelphia to his own purse the sum ofsixty thousand dollars, in the form of a check made out to his order,dated Oc-tober 9, 1871, and by him received from one Albert Stires, theprivate secretary and head bookkeeper of the treasurer of this city,at the time in question. Now, gentlemen, what are the facts in thisconnection? You have heard the various witnesses and know the generaloutlines of the story. Take the testimony of George W. Stener, to beginwith. He tells you that sometime back in the year 1866 he was greatly inneed of some one, some banker or broker, who would tell him how to bringcity loan, which was selling very low at the time, to par--who would no-tonly tell him this, but proceed to demonstrate that his knowledge wasaccurate by doing it. Mr. Stener was an inexperienced man at the timein the matter of finance. Mr. Cowperwood was an active young man withan enviable record as a broker and a trader on 'change. He proceed-edto demonstrate to Mr. Stener not only in theory, but in fact, how thisthing of bringing city loan to par could be done. He made an arrangementat that time with Mr. Stener, the details of which you have heard fromMr. Stener himself, the result of which was that a large amount of cityloan was turned over to Mr. Cowperwood by Mr. Stener for sale, and byadroit manipula-tion--methods of buying and selling which need not begone into here, but which are perfectly sane and legitimate in the worldin which Mr. Cowperwood operated, did bring that loan to par, and keptit there year after year as you have all heard here testified to.“Now what is the bone of contention here, gentlemen, the significantfact which brings Mr. Stener into this court at this time charging hisold-time agent and broker with larceny and embezzlement, and alleg-ingthat he has transferred to his own use without a shadow of return sixtythousand dollars of the money which belongs to the city treasury? Whatis it? Is it that Mr. Cowperwood secretly, with great stealth, as itwere, at some time or other, unknown to Mr. Stener or to his assis-tants,entered the office of the treasurer and forcibly, and with criminalintent, carried away six-ty thousand dollars' worth of the city's money?Not at all. The charge is, as you have heard the district attorneyexplain, that Mr. Cowperwood came in broad daylight at between four andfive o'clock of the afternoon preceeding the day of his assignment; wascloseted with Mr. Stener for a half or three-quarters of an hour; cameout; explained to Mr. Albert Stires that he had recent-ly bought sixtythousand dollars' worth of city loan for the city sinking-fund, forwhich he had not been paid; asked that the amount be credited on thecity's books to him, and that he be given a check, which was his due,and walked out. Anything very remarkable about that, gentlemen? Anythingvery strange? Has it been testified here to-day that Mr. Cowperwood wasnot the agent of the city for the transaction of just such business ashe said on that occasion that he had transacted? Did any one say here onthe witness-stand that he had not bought city loan as he said he had?“Why is it then that Mr. Stener charges Mr. Cowperwood with larcenouslyse-curing and feloniously disposing of a check for sixty thousand dollarsfor certificates which he had a right to buy, and which it has not beencontested here that he did buy? The reason lies just here--listen--justhere. At the time my client asked for the check and took it away withhim and deposited it in his own bank to his own account, he failed, sothe prosecution insists, to put the sixty thousand dollars' worth ofcertificates for which he had received the check, in the sink-ing-fund;and having failed to do that, and being compelled by the pressure offinancial events the same day to suspend payment generally, he thereby,according to the prosecution and the anxious leaders of theRepublican party in the city, became an embezzler, a thief, a this orthat--anything you please so long as you find a substitute for George W.Stener and the indifferent leaders of the Republican party in the eyesof the people.”And here Mr. Steger proceeded boldly and defiantly to outline the entirepolitical situation as it had manifested itself in connection with theChicago fire, the subsequent panic and its political consequences, andto picture Cow-perwood as the unjustly maligned agent, who before thefire was valuable and honorable enough to suit any of the politicalleaders of Philadelphia, but afterward, and when political de-featthreatened, was picked upon as the most available scapegoat anywherewithin reach.And it took him a half hour to do that. And afterward but only after hehad pointed to Stener as the true henchman and stalking horse, who had,in turn, been used by political forces above him to accomplish certainfinancial results, which they were not willing to have ascribed tothemselves, he continued with:“But now, in the light of all this, only see how ridiculous all this is!How silly! Frank A. Cowperwood had always been the agent of the city inthese matters for years and years. He worked under certain ruleswhich he and Mr. Stener had agreed upon in the first place, and whichobviously came from others, who were above Mr. Stener, since they were-hold-over customs and rules from administrations, which had been longbefore Mr. Stener ever appeared on the scene as city treasurer. One ofthem was that he could carry all transactions over until the first ofthe month following before he struck a balance. That is, he need not payany money over for anything to the city treasurer, need not send him anychecks or deposit any money or certificates in the sinking-fund untilthe first of the month because--now listen to this carefully, gentlemen;it is important--because his transactions in connection with city loanand everything else that he dealt in for the city treasurer were sonumerous, so swift, so uncalculated beforehand, that he had to have aloose, easy system of this kind in order to do his work properly--todo business at all. Otherwise he could not very well have worked to thebest advantage for Mr. Stener, or for any one else. It would have meanttoo much bookkeeping for him--too much for the city treasurer. Mr.Stener has testified to that in the early part of his sto-ry. AlbertStires has indicated that that was his understanding of it. Well, thenwhat? Why, just this. Would any jury suppose, would any sane businessman believe that if such were the case Mr. Cowperwood would be runningpersonally with all these items of deposit, to the different banks orthe sinking-fund or the city treasurer's office, or would be saying tohis head bookkeep-er, 'Here, Stapley, here is a check for sixty thousanddollars. See that the certificates of loan which this represents are putin the sinking-fund to-day'? And why not? What a ridiculous sup-positionany other supposition is! As a matter of course and as had always beenthe case, Mr. Cowperwood had a system. When the time came, this checkand these certificates would be automatically taken care of. He handedhis bookkeeper the check and forgot all about it. Would you imagine abanker with a vast business of this kind doing anything else?”Mr. Steger paused for breath and inquiry, and then, having satisfiedhimself that his point had been sufficiently made, he continued:“Of course the answer is that he knew he was going to fail. Well, Mr.Cowperwood's reply is that he didn't know anything of the sort. He haspersonally testified here that it was only at the last moment before itactually happened that he either thought or knew of such an occurrence.Why, then, this alleged refusal to let him have the check to which hewas legally entitled? I think I know. I think I can give a reason if youwill hear me out.”Steger shifted his position and came at the jury from anotherintellectual angle:“It was simply because Mr. George W. Stener at that time, owing toa recent notable fire and a panic, imagined for some reason--perhapsbecause Mr. Cowperwood cautioned him not to become frightened over-local developments generally--that Mr. Cowperwood was going to close hisdoors; and having considerable money on deposit with him at a low rateof interest, Mr. Stener decided that Mr. Cowperwood must not have anymore money--not even the money that was actually due him for servicesrendered, and that had nothing whatsoever to do with the money loanedhim by Mr. Stener at two and one-half per cent. Now isn't that aridiculous situation? But it was because Mr. George W. Stener was filledwith his own fears, based on a fire and a panic which had ab-solutelynothing to do with Mr. Cowperwood's solvency in the beginning that hedecided not to let Frank A. Cowperwood have the money that was actuallydue him, because he, Stener, was criminally using the city's money tofurther his own private interests (through Mr. Cowperwood as a broker),and in danger of being exposed and possibly punished. Now where, I askyou, does the good sense of that decision come in? Is it apparent toyou, gentlemen? Was Mr. Cow-perwood still an agent for the city at thetime he bought the loan certificates as here testified? He certainlywas. If so, was he entitled to that money? Who is going to stand up hereand deny it? Where is the question then, as to his right or his honestyin this matter? How does it come in here at all? I can tell you. Itsprang solely from one source and from nowhere else, and that is thedesire of the politicians of this city to find a scapegoat for theRepublican party.“Now you may think I am going rather far afield for an explanation ofthis very peculiar decision to prose-cute Mr. Cowperwood, an agent of thecity, for demanding and receiving what actually be-longed to him. ButI'm not. Consider the position of the Republican party at that time.Consider the fact that an exposure of the truth in regard to thedetails of a large defalcation in the city treasury would have a veryunsatisfactory effect on the election about to be held. The Republi-canparty had a new city treasurer to elect, a new district attorney. Ithad been in the habit of allowing its city treasurers the privilege ofinvesting the funds in their possession at a low rate of interest forthe benefit of themselves and their friends. Their salaries were small.They had to have some way of eking out a reasonable existence. Was Mr.George Stener responsible for this custom of loaning out the city money?Not at all. Was Mr. Cowperwood? Not at all. The custom had been in voguelong before either Mr. Cowperwood or Mr. Stener came on the sce-ne. Why,then, this great hue and cry about it now? The entire uproar sprangsolely from the fear of Mr. Stener at this juncture, the fear of thepoliticians at this juncture, of public exposure. No city treasurer hadever been exposed before. It was a new thing to face exposure, to facethe risk of having the public's attention called to a rather nefariouspractice of which Mr. Stener was taking advantage, that was all. A greatfire and a panic were endangering the security and well-being of manya financial organization in the city--Mr. Cowperwood's among others.It meant many possible failures, and many possible failures meant onepossible failure. If Frank A. Cowperwood failed, he would fail owing thecity of Philadelphia five hundred thousand dol-lars, borrowed from thecity treasurer at the very low rate of interest of two and one-half per-cent. Anything very detrimental to Mr. Cowperwood in that? Had he goneto the city treasurer and asked to be loaned money at two and one-halfper cent.? If he had, was there anything criminal in it from a businesspoint of view? Isn't a man entitled to borrow money from any source hecan at the lowest possible rate of interest? Did Mr. Stener have to loanit to Mr. Cow-perwood if he did not want to? As a matter of fact didn'the testify here to-day that he person-ally had sent for Mr. Cowperwoodin the first place? Why, then, in Heaven's name, this excited charge oflarceny, larceny as bailee, embezzlement, embezzlement on a check, etc.,etc.?“Once more, gentlemen, listen. I'll tell you why. The men who stoodbehind Stener, and whose bidding he was doing, wanted to make apolitical scapegoat of some one--of Frank Algernon Cow-perwood, if theycouldn't get any one else. That's why. No other reason under God's bluesky, not one. Why, if Mr. Cowperwood needed more money just at that timeto tide him over, it would have been good policy for them to have givenit to him and hushed this matter up. It would have been illegal--thoughnot any more illegal than anything else that has ever been done in thisconnection--but it would have been safer. Fear, gentlemen, fear, lack ofcourage, inability to meet a great crisis when a great crisis appears,was all that really prevented them from doing this. They were afraid toplace confidence in a man who had never heretofore be-trayed their trustand from whose loyalty and great financial ability they and the cityhad been reaping large profits. The reigning city treasurer of the timedidn't have the courage to go on in the face of fire and panic and therumors of possible failure, and stick by his illegal guns; and sohe decided to draw in his horns as testified here to-day--to ask Mr.Cowperwood to return all or at least a big part of the five hundredthousand dollars he had loaned him, and which Cow-perwood had beenactually using for his, Stener's benefit, and to refuse him in additionthe money that was actually due him for an authorized purchase of cityloan. Was Cowperwood guilty as an agent in any of these transactions?Not in the least. Was there any suit pending to make him return the fivehundred thousand dollars of city money involved in his present fail-ure?Not at all. It was simply a case of wild, silly panic on the part ofGeorge W. Stener, and a strong desire on the part of the Republicanparty leaders, once they discovered what the situa-tion was, to find someone outside of Stener, the party treasurer, upon whom they could blamethe shortage in the treasury. You heard what Mr. Cowperwood testified tohere in this case to-day--that he went to Mr. Stener to forfend againstany possible action of this kind in the first place. And it was becauseof this very warning that Mr. Stener became wildly excited, lost hishead, and wanted Mr. Cowperwood to return him all his money, all thefive hundred thou-sand dollars he had loaned him at two and one-half percent. Isn't that silly financial business at the best? Wasn't that afine time to try to call a perfectly legal loan?“But now to return to this particular check of sixty thousand dollars.When Mr. Cowperwood called that last afternoon before he failed, Mr.Stener testified that he told him that he couldn't have any more mon-ey,that it was impossible, and that then Mr. Cowperwood went out into hisgeneral office and without his knowledge or consent persuaded his chiefclerk and secretary, Mr. Albert Stires, to give him a check for sixtythousand dollars, to which he was not entitled and on which he, Sten-er,would have stopped payment if he had known.“What nonsense! Why didn't he know? The books were there, open to him.Mr. Stires told him the first thing the next morning. Mr. Cow-perwoodthought nothing of it, for he was entitled to it, and could collect itin any court of law having jurisdiction in such cases, failure orno failure. It is silly for Mr. Stener to say he would have stoppedpayment. Such a claim was probably an after-thought of the next morningafter he had talked with his friends, the politicians, and was all apart, a trick, a trap, to provide the Re-publican party with a scapegoatat this time. Nothing more and nothing less; and you may be sure noone knew it better than the people who were most anxious to see Mr.Cowperwood convicted.”Steger paused and looked significantly at Shannon.“Gentlemen of the jury [he final-ly concluded, quietly and earnestly],you are going to find, when you think it over in the jury-room thisevening, that this charge of larceny and larceny as bailee, andembezzlement of a check for sixty thousand dollars, which are containedin this indictment, and which represent nothing more than the eagereffort of the district attorney to word this one act in such a way thatit will look like a crime, represents nothing more than the excitedimagination of a lot of political refugees who are anxious to protecttheir own skirts at the expense of Mr. Cow-perwood, and who care fornothing--honor, fair play, or anything else, so long as they are let offscot-free. They don't want the Republicans of Pennsylvania to think tooill of the Republican party management and control in this city. Theywant to protect George W. Stener as much as possible and to make apolitical scapegoat of my client. It can't be done, and it won't bedone. As honorable, intelligent men you won't permit it to be done. AndI think with that thought I can safely leave you.”Steger suddenly turned from the jury-box and walked to his seat be-sideCowperwood, while Shannon arose, calm, forceful, vigorous, much younger.As between man and man, Shannon was not particularly opposed to the caseSteger had made out for Cow-perwood, nor was he opposed to Cowperwood'shaving made money as he did. As a matter of fact, Shannon actuallythought that if he had been in Cowperwood's position he would havedone exactly the same thing. However, he was the newly elected districtattorney. He had a record to make; and, besides, the political powerswho were above him were satisfied that Cowperwood ought to be convictedfor the looks of the thing. Therefore he laid his hands firmly on therail at first, looked the jurors steadily in the eyes for a time, and,having framed a few thoughts in his mind began:“Now, gentlemen of the jury, it seems to me that if we all pay strictattention to what has transpired here to-day, we will have no difficultyin reaching a con-clusion; and it will be a very satisfactory one, ifwe all try to interpret the facts correctly. This defendant, Mr.Cowperwood, comes into this court to-day charged, as I have stated toyou be-fore, with larceny, with larceny as bailee, with embezzlement,and with embezzlement of a specific check--namely, one dated October 9,1871, drawn to the order of Frank A. Cowperwood & Company for the sumof sixty thousand dollars by the secretary of the city treasurer for theci-ty treasurer, and by him signed, as he had a perfect right to sign it,and delivered to the said Frank A. Cowperwood, who claims that he wasnot only properly solvent at the time, but had previously purchasedcertificates of city loan to the value of sixty thousand dollars, andhad at that time or would shortly thereafter, as was his custom, depositthem to the credit of the city in the city sinking-fund, and thus closewhat would ordinarily be an ordinary transaction--namely, that of FrankA. Cowperwood & Company as bankers and brokers for the city buying cityloan for the city, depositing it in the sinking-fund, and being promptlyand properly reim-bursed. Now, gentlemen, what are the actual factsin this case? Was the said Frank A. Cow-perwood & Company--there is nocompany, as you well know, as you have heard testified here to-day, onlyFrank A. Cowperwood--was the said Frank A. Cowperwood a fit person toreceive the check at this time in the manner he received it--that is,was he authorized agent of the city at the time, or was he not? Was hesolvent? Did he actually himself think he was going to fail, and wasthis sixty-thousand-dollar check a last thin straw which he was grabbingat to save his financial life regardless of what it involved legally,morally, or otherwise; or had he actually purchased certificates of cityloan to the amount he said he had in the way he said he had, at thetime he said he had, and was he merely collecting his honest due? Did heintend to deposit these certificates of loans in the city sinking-fund,as he said he would--as it was understood naturally and normally thathe would--or did he not? Were his relations with the city treasurer asbroker and agent the same as they had always been on the day that hesecured this particular check for sixty thousand dollars, or were theynot? Had they been terminated by a conversation fifteen minutes beforeor two days before or two weeks before--it makes no difference when, solong as they had been properly terminated--or had they not? A businessman has a right to abrogate an agreement at any time where there isno specific form of contract and no fixed period of operation enteredinto--as you all must know. You must not forget that in considering theevidence in this case. Did George W. Stener, knowing or suspecting thatFrank A. Cow-perwood was in a tight place financially, unable to fulfillany longer properly and honestly the duties supposedly devolving onhim by this agreement, terminate it then and there on October 9, 1871,before this check for sixty thousand dollars was given, or did he not?Did Mr. Frank A. Cowperwood then and there, knowing that he was nolonger an agent of the city treasurer and the city, and knowing alsothat he was insolvent (having, as Mr. Stener contends, admitted to himthat he was so), and having no intention of placing the certificateswhich he subsequently declared he had purchased in the sinking-fund, goout into Mr. Stener's general office, meet his secretary, tell him hehad purchased sixty thousand dollars' worth of city loan, ask for thecheck, get it, put it in his pocket, walk off, and never make anyreturn of any kind in any manner, shape, or form to the city, and then,subsequently, twenty-four hours later, fail, owing this and five hundredthousand dollars more to the city treasury, or did he not? What arethe facts in this case? What have the witnesses testified to? What hasGeorge W. Stener testified to, Albert Stires, President Davison, Mr.Cowperwood himself? What are the interesting, subtle facts in this case,anyhow? Gentlemen, you have a very curious problem to decide.”He paused and gazed at the jury, adjusting his sleeves as he did so,and looking as though he knew for certain that he was on the trail of aslippery, elusive criminal who was in a fair way to foist himself uponan honorable and decent community and an honorable and innocent jury asan honest man.Then he continued:“Now, gentlemen, what are the facts? You can see for yourselves ex-actlyhow this whole situation has come about. You are sensible men. I don'tneed to tell you. Here are two men, one elected treasurer of the city ofPhiladelphia, sworn to guard the inter-ests of the city and to manipulateits finances to the best advantage, and the other called in at a timeof uncertain financial cogitation to assist in unraveling a possiblydifficult financial prob-lem; and then you have a case of a quiet,private financial understanding being reached, and of subsequent illegaldealings in which one man who is shrewder, wiser, more versed inthe subtle ways of Third Street leads the other along over seeminglycharming paths of fortunate invest-ment into an accidental but none theless criminal mire of failure and exposure and public cal-umny and whatnot. And then they get to the place where the more vulnerable individualof the two--the man in the most dangerous position, the city treasurerof Philadelphia, no less--can no longer reasonably or, let us say,courageously, follow the other fellow; and then you have such aspectacle as was described here this afternoon in the witness-chair byMr. Stener--that is, you have a vicious, greedy, unmerciful financialwolf standing over a cowering, unsophisticated commercial lamb, andsaying to him, his white, shiny teeth glittering all the while, 'If youdon't advance me the money I ask for--the three hundred thousand dollarsI now demand--you will be a convict, your children will be thrown in thestreet, you and your wife and your family will be in poverty again, andthere will be no one to turn a hand for you.' That is what Mr. Stenersays Mr. Cowperwood said to him. I, for my part, haven't a doubt in theworld that he did. Mr. Steger, in his very guarded references to hisclient, describes him as a nice, kind, gentlemanly agent, a brokermerely on whom was practically forced the use of five hundred thousanddollars at two and a half per cent. when money was bringing from ten tofifteen per cent. in Third Street on call loans, and even more. But Ifor one don't choose to believe it. The thing that strikes me asstrange in all of this is that if he was so nice and kind and gentle andremote--a mere hired and therefore subservient agent--how is it thathe could have gone to Mr. Stener's office two or three days before thematter of this sixty-thousand-dollar check came up and say to him, asMr. Stener testifies under oath that he did say to him, 'If you don'tgive me three hundred thousand dollars' worth more of the city's moneyat once, to-day, I will fail, and you will be a convict. You will goto the penitentiary.'? That's what he said to him. 'I will fail and youwill be a convict. They can't touch me, but they will arrest you. Iam an agent merely.' Does that sound like a nice, mild, innocent,well-mannered agent, a hired broker, or doesn't it sound like a hard,defiant, contemptuous master--a man in control and ready to rule and winby fair means or foul?“Gentlemen, I hold no brief for George W. Stener. In my judgment he isas guilty as his smug co-partner in crime--if not more so--this oilyfinancier who came smiling and in sheep's clothing, pointing out subtleways by which the city's money could be made profitable for both; butwhen I hear Mr. Cowperwood described as I have just heard him described,as a nice, mild, innocent agent, my gorge rises. Why, gentlemen, if youwant to get a right point of view on this whole proposition you willhave to go back about ten or twelve years and see Mr. George W. Steneras he was then, a rather poverty-stricken beginner in politics, andbefore this very subtle and capable broker and agent came along andpointed out ways and means by which the city's money could be madeprofitable; George W. Stener wasn't very much of a personage then, andneither was Frank A. Cowperwood when he found Stener newly elected tothe office of city treasurer. Can't you see him arriving at that timenice and fresh and young and well dressed, as shrewd as a fox, andsaying: 'Come to me. Let me handle city loan. Loan me the city's moneyat two per cent. or less.' Can't you hear him suggesting this? Can't yousee him?“George W. Stener was a poor man, comparatively a very poor man, whenhe first became city treasurer. All he had was a small real-estateand insurance business which brought him in, say, twenty-five hundreddollars a year. He had a wife and four children to support, and he hadnever had the slightest taste of what for him might be called luxury orcomfort. Then comes Mr. Cowperwood--at his request, to be sure, but onan errand which held no theory of evil gains in Mr. Stener's mind at thetime--and proposes his grand scheme of manipulating all the city loanto their mutual advantage. Do you yourselves think, gentlemen, from whatyou have seen of George W. Stener here on the witness-stand, that it washe who proposed this plan of ill-gotten wealth to that gentleman overthere?”He pointed to Cowperwood.“Does he look to you like a man who would be able to tell that gentlemananything about finance or this wonderful manipulation that followed?I ask you, does he look clever enough to suggest all the subtleties bywhich these two subsequently made so much money? Why, the statement ofthis man Cowperwood made to his creditors at the time of his failurehere a few weeks ago showed that he considered himself to be worth overone million two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, and he is only alittle over thirty-four years old to-day. How much was he worth at thetime he first entered business relations with the ex-city treasurer?Have you any idea? I can tell. I had the matter looked up almost a monthago on my accession to office. Just a little over two hundred thousanddollars, gentlemen--just a little over two hundred thousand dollars.Here is an abstract from the files of Dun & Company for that year. Nowyou can see how rapidly our Caesar has grown in wealth since then.You can see how profitable these few short years have been to him. WasGeorge W. Stener worth any such sum up to the time he was removed fromhis office and indicted for embezzlement? Was he? I have here a scheduleof his liabilities and assets made out at the time. You can see it foryourselves, gentlemen. Just two hundred and twenty thousand dollarsmeasured the sum of all his property three weeks ago; and it is anaccurate estimate, as I have reason to know. Why was it, do you suppose,that Mr. Cowperwood grew so fast in wealth and Mr. Stener so slowly?They were partners in crime. Mr. Stener was loaning Mr. Cowperwood vastsums of the city's money at two per cent. when call-rates for money inThird Street were sometimes as high as sixteen and seventeen per cent.Don't you suppose that Mr. Cowperwood sitting there knew how to use thisvery cheaply come-by money to the very best advantage? Does he look toyou as though he didn't? You have seen him on the witness-stand. Youhave heard him testify. Very suave, very straightforward-seeming, veryinnocent, doing everything as a favor to Mr. Stener and his friends, ofcourse, and yet making a million in a little over six years and allowingMr. Stener to make one hundred and sixty thousand dollars or less,for Mr. Stener had some little money at the time this partnership wasentered into--a few thousand dollars.”Shannon now came to the vital transaction of October 9th, whenCowperwood called on Stener and secured the check for sixty thousanddollars from Albert Stires. His scorn for this (as he appeared to think)subtle and criminal transaction was unbounded. It was plain larceny,stealing, and Cowperwood knew it when he asked Stires for the check.“Think of it! [Shannon exclaimed, turning and looking squarely atCowperwood, who faced him quite calmly, undisturbed and unashamed.]Think of it! Think of the colossal nerve of the man--the Machiavelliansubtlety of his brain. He knew he was going to fail. He knew aftertwo days of financial work--after two days of struggle to offset theprovidential disaster which upset his nefarious schemes--that he hadexhausted every possible resource save one, the city treasury, and thatunless he could compel aid there he was going to fail. He already owedthe city treasury five hundred thousand dollars. He had already used thecity treasurer as a cat's-paw so much, had involved him so deeply, thatthe latter, because of the staggering size of the debt, was becomingfrightened. Did that deter Mr. Cowperwood? Not at all.”He shook his finger ominously in Cowperwood's face, and the latterturned irritably away. “He is showing off for the benefit of hisfuture,” he whispered to Steger. “I wish you could tell the jury that.”“I wish I could,” replied Steger, smiling scornfully, “but my hour isover.”“Why [continued Mr. Shannon, turning once more to the jury], think ofthe colossal, wolfish nerve that would permit a man to say to AlbertStires that he had just purchased sixty thousand dollars' worthadditional of city loan, and that he would then and there take the checkfor it! Had he actually purchased this city loan as he said he had?Who can tell? Could any human being wind through all the mazes of thecomplicated bookkeeping system which he ran, and actually tell? The bestanswer to that is that if he did purchase the certificates he intendedthat it should make no difference to the city, for he made no effortto put the certificates in the sinking-fund, where they belonged. Hiscounsel says, and he says, that he didn't have to until the first ofthe month, although the law says that he must do it at once, and he knewwell enough that legally he was bound to do it. His counsel says, and hesays, that he didn't know he was going to fail. Hence there was no needof worrying about it. I wonder if any of you gentlemen really believedthat? Had he ever asked for a check like that so quick before in hislife? In all the history of these nefarious transactions was thereanother incident like that? You know there wasn't. He had never before,on any occasion, asked personally for a check for anything in thisoffice, and yet on this occasion he did it. Why? Why should he ask forit this time? A few hours more, according to his own statement, wouldn'thave made any difference one way or the other, would it? He could havesent a boy for it, as usual. That was the way it had always been donebefore. Why anything different now? I'll tell you why! [Shannon suddenlyshouted, varying his voice tremendously.] I'll tell you why! He knewthat he was a ruined man! He knew that his last semi-legitimate avenueof escape--the favor of George W. Stener--had been closed to him! Heknew that honestly, by open agreement, he could not extract anothersingle dollar from the treasury of the city of Philadelphia. He knewthat if he left the office without this check and sent a boy for it, thearoused city treasurer would have time to inform his clerks, andthat then no further money could be obtained. That's why! That's why,gentlemen, if you really want to know.“Now, gentlemen of the jury, I am about done with my arraignment of thisfine, honorable, virtuous citizen whom the counsel for the defense,Mr. Steger, tells you you cannot possibly convict without doing agreat injustice. All I have to say is that you look to me like sane,intelligent men--just the sort of men that I meet everywhere in theordinary walks of life, doing an honorable American business inan honorable American way. Now, gentlemen of the jury [he was verysoft-spoken now], all I have to say is that if, after all you have heardand seen here to-day, you still think that Mr. Frank A. Cowperwood isan honest, honorable man--that he didn't steal, willfully and knowingly,sixty thousand dollars from the Philadelphia city treasury; that he hadactually bought the certificates he said he had, and had intended to putthem in the sinking-fund, as he said he did, then don't you dare to doanything except turn him loose, and that speedily, so that he can goon back to-day into Third Street, and start to straighten out hismuch-entangled financial affairs. It is the only thing for honest,conscientious men to do--to turn him instantly loose into the heart ofthis community, so that some of the rank injustice that my opponent, Mr.Steger, alleges has been done him will be a little made up to him. Youowe him, if that is the way you feel, a prompt acknowledgment of hisinnocence. Don't worry about George W. Stener. His guilt is establishedby his own confession. He admits he is guilty. He will be sentencedwithout trial later on. But this man--he says he is an honest, honorableman. He says he didn't think he was going to fail. He says he used allthat threatening, compelling, terrifying language, not because he wasin danger of failing, but because he didn't want the bother of lookingfurther for aid. What do you think? Do you really think that hehad purchased sixty thousand dollars more of certificates for thesinking-fund, and that he was entitled to the money? If so, why didn'the put them in the sinking-fund? They're not there now, and the sixtythousand dollars is gone. Who got it? The Girard National Bank, where hewas overdrawn to the extent of one hundred thousand dollars! Did it getit and forty thousand dollars more in other checks and certificates?Certainly. Why? Do you suppose the Girard National Bank might be in anyway grateful for this last little favor before he closed his doors? Doyou think that President Davison, whom you saw here testifying so kindlyin this case feels at all friendly, and that that may possibly--Idon't say that it does--explain his very kindly interpretation of Mr.Cowperwood's condition? It might be. You can think as well along thatline as I can. Anyhow, gentlemen, President Davison says Mr. Cowperwoodis an honorable, honest man, and so does his counsel, Mr. Steger. Youhave heard the testimony. Now you think it over. If you want to turn himloose--turn him loose. [He waved his hand wearily.] You're the judges.I wouldn't; but then I am merely a hard-working lawyer--one person, oneopinion. You may think differently--that's your business. [He waved hishand suggestively, almost contemptuously.] However, I'm through, and Ithank you for your courtesy. Gentlemen, the decision rests with you.”He turned away grandly, and the jury stirred--so did the idle spectatorsin the court. Judge Payderson sighed a sigh of relief. It was now quitedark, and the flaring gas forms in the court were all brightly lighted.Outside one could see that it was snowing. The judge stirred among hispapers wearily, and turning to the jurors solemnly, began his customaryexplanation of the law, after which they filed out to the jury-room.Cowperwood turned to his father who now came over across thefast-emptying court, and said:“Well, we'll know now in a little while.”“Yes,” replied Cowperwood, Sr., a little wearily. “I hope it comes outright. I saw Butler back there a little while ago.”“Did you?” queried Cowperwood, to whom this had a peculiar interest.“Yes,” replied his father. “He's just gone.”So, Cowperwood thought, Butler was curious enough as to his fate to wantto come here and watch him tried. Shannon was his tool. Judge Paydersonwas his emissary, in a way. He, Cowperwood, might defeat him in thematter of his daughter, but it was not so easy to defeat him hereunless the jury should happen to take a sympathetic attitude. They mightconvict him, and then Butler's Judge Payderson would have the privilegeof sentencing him--giving him the maximum sentence. That would not be sonice--five years! He cooled a little as he thought of it, but there wasno use worrying about what had not yet happened. Steger came forward andtold him that his bail was now ended--had been the moment the jury leftthe room--and that he was at this moment actually in the care ofthe sheriff, of whom he knew--Sheriff Adlai Jaspers. Unless he wereacquitted by the jury, Steger added, he would have to remain in thesheriff's care until an application for a certificate of reasonabledoubt could be made and acted upon.“It would take all of five days, Frank,” Steger said, “but Jaspers isn'ta bad sort. He'd be reasonable. Of course if we're lucky you won't haveto visit him. You will have to go with this bailiff now, though. Then ifthings come out right we'll go home. Say, I'd like to win this case,” he said. “I'd like to give them the laugh and see you do it. I consideryou've been pretty badly treated, and I think I made that perfectlyclear. I can reverse this verdict on a dozen grounds if they happen todecide against you.”He and Cowperwood and the latter's father now stalked off with thesheriff's subordinate--a small man by the name of “Eddie” Zanders, whohad approached to take charge. They entered a small room called the penat the back of the court, where all those on trial whose liberty hadbeen forfeited by the jury's leaving the room had to wait pending itsreturn. It was a dreary, high-ceiled, four-square place, with a windowlooking out into Chestnut Street, and a second door leading off intosomewhere--one had no idea where. It was dingy, with a worn woodenfloor, some heavy, plain, wooden benches lining the four sides, nopictures or ornaments of any kind. A single two-arm gas-pipe descendedfrom the center of the ceiling. It was permeated by a peculiarly staleand pungent odor, obviously redolent of all the flotsam and jetsam oflife--criminal and innocent--that had stood or sat in here from time totime, waiting patiently to learn what a deliberating fate held in store.Cowperwood was, of course, disgusted; but he was too self-reliantand capable to show it. All his life he had been immaculate, almostfastidious in his care of himself. Here he was coming, perforce, incontact with a form of life which jarred upon him greatly. Steger, whowas beside him, made some comforting, explanatory, apologetic remarks.“Not as nice as it might be,” he said, “but you won't mind waiting alittle while. The jury won't be long, I fancy.”“That may not help me,” he replied, walking to the window. Afterward headded: “What must be, must be.”His father winced. Suppose Frank was on the verge of a long prison term,which meant an atmosphere like this? Heavens! For a moment, he trembled,then for the first time in years he made a silent prayer.Chapter XLIVMeanwhile the great argument had been begun in the jury-room, and allthe points that had been meditatively speculated upon in the jury-boxwere now being openly discussed.It is amazingly interesting to see how a jury will waver and speculatein a case like this--how curious and uncertain is the process by whichit makes up its so-called mind. So-called truth is a nebulous thing atbest; facts are capable of such curious inversion and interpretation,honest and otherwise. The jury had a strongly complicated problem beforeit, and it went over it and over it.Juries reach not so much definite conclusions as verdicts, in a curiousfashion and for curious reasons. Very often a jury will have concludedlittle so far as its individual members are concerned and yet it willhave reached a verdict. The matter of time, as all lawyers know, playsa part in this. Juries, speaking of the members collectively andfrequently individually, object to the amount of time it takes to decidea case. They do not enjoy sitting and deliberating over a problem unlessit is tremendously fascinating. The ramifications or the mystery of asyllogism can become a weariness and a bore. The jury-room itself mayand frequently does become a dull agony.On the other hand, no jury contemplates a disagreement with any degreeof satisfaction. There is something so inherently constructive in thehuman mind that to leave a problem unsolved is plain misery. It hauntsthe average individual like any other important task left unfinished.Men in a jury-room, like those scientifically demonstrated atoms of acrystal which scientists and philosophers love to speculate upon, likefinally to arrange themselves into an orderly and artistic whole, topresent a compact, intellectual front, to be whatever they have set outto be, properly and rightly--a compact, sensible jury. One sees thissame instinct magnificently displayed in every other phase of nature--inthe drifting of sea-wood to the Sargasso Sea, in the geometricinterrelation of air-bubbles on the surface of still water, in themarvelous unreasoned architecture of so many insects and atomic formswhich make up the substance and the texture of this world. It would seemas though the physical substance of life--this apparition of form whichthe eye detects and calls real were shot through with some vast subtletythat loves order, that is order. The atoms of our so-called being, inspite of our so-called reason--the dreams of a mood--know where to goand what to do. They represent an order, a wisdom, a willing that is notof us. They build orderly in spite of us. So the subconscious spiritof a jury. At the same time, one does not forget the strange hypnoticeffect of one personality on another, the varying effects of varyingtypes on each other, until a solution--to use the word in its purelychemical sense--is reached. In a jury-room the thought or determinationof one or two or three men, if it be definite enough, is likely topervade the whole room and conquer the reason or the opposition of themajority. One man “standing out” for the definite thought that is in himis apt to become either the triumphant leader of a pliant mass or thebrutally battered target of a flaming, concentrated intellectual fire.Men despise dull opposition that is without reason. In a jury-room, ofall places, a man is expected to give a reason for the faith that is inhim--if one is demanded. It will not do to say, “I cannot agree.” Jurorshave been known to fight. Bitter antagonisms lasting for years have beengenerated in these close quarters. Recalcitrant jurors have been houndedcommercially in their local spheres for their unreasoned oppositions orconclusions.After reaching the conclusion that Cowperwood unquestionably deservedsome punishment, there was wrangling as to whether the verdict should beguilty on all four counts, as charged in the indictment. Since they didnot understand how to differentiate between the various charges verywell, they decided it should be on all four, and a recommendation tomercy added. Afterward this last was eliminated, however; either he wasguilty or he was not. The judge could see as well as they could all theextenuating circumstances--perhaps better. Why tie his hands? As a ruleno attention was paid to such recommendations, anyhow, and it only madethe jury look wabbly.So, finally, at ten minutes after twelve that night, they were ready toreturn a verdict; and Judge Payderson, who, because of his interest inthe case and the fact that he lived not so far away, had decided to waitup this long, was recalled. Steger and Cowperwood were sent for.The court-room was fully lighted. The bailiff, the clerk, and thestenographer were there. The jury filed in, and Cowperwood, with Stegerat his right, took his position at the gate which gave into the railedspace where prisoners always stand to hear the verdict and listen to anycommentary of the judge. He was accompanied by his father, who was verynervous.For the first time in his life he felt as though he were walking inhis sleep. Was this the real Frank Cowperwood of two months before--sowealthy, so progressive, so sure? Was this only December 5th or 6th now(it was after midnight)? Why was it the jury had deliberated so long?What did it mean? Here they were now, standing and gazing solemnlybefore them; and here now was Judge Payderson, mounting the steps of hisrostrum, his frizzled hair standing out in a strange, attractiveway, his familiar bailiff rapping for order. He did not look atCowperwood--it would not be courteous--but at the jury, who gazed at himin return. At the words of the clerk, “Gentlemen of the jury, have youagreed upon a verdict?” the foreman spoke up, “We have.”“Do you find the defendant guilty or not guilty?”“We find the defendant guilty as charged in the indictment.”How had they come to do this? Because he had taken a check for sixtythousand dollars which did not belong to him? But in reality it did.Good Lord, what was sixty thousand dollars in the sum total of all themoney that had passed back and forth between him and George W. Stener?Nothing, nothing! A mere bagatelle in its way; and yet here it hadrisen up, this miserable, insignificant check, and become a mountain ofopposition, a stone wall, a prison-wall barring his further progress. Itwas astonishing. He looked around him at the court-room. How large andbare and cold it was! Still he was Frank A. Cowperwood. Why should helet such queer thoughts disturb him? His fight for freedom and privilegeand restitution was not over yet. Good heavens! It had only begun. Infive days he would be out again on bail. Steger would take an appeal.He would be out, and he would have two long months in which to make anadditional fight. He was not down yet. He would win his liberty. Thisjury was all wrong. A higher court would say so. It would reverse theirverdict, and he knew it. He turned to Steger, where the latter washaving the clerk poll the jury, in the hope that some one juror had beenover-persuaded, made to vote against his will.“Is that your verdict?” he heard the clerk ask of Philip Moultrie, jurorNo. 1.“It is,” replied that worthy, solemnly.“Is that your verdict?” The clerk was pointing to Simon Glassberg.“Yes, sir.”“Is that your verdict?” He pointed to Fletcher Norton.“Yes.”So it went through the whole jury. All the men answered firmly andclearly, though Steger thought it might barely be possible that onewould have changed his mind. The judge thanked them and told them thatin view of their long services this night, they were dismissed for theterm. The only thing remaining to be done now was for Steger to persuadeJudge Payderson to grant a stay of sentence pending the hearing of amotion by the State Supreme Court for a new trial.The Judge looked at Cowperwood very curiously as Steger made thisrequest in proper form, and owing to the importance of the case andthe feeling he had that the Supreme Court might very readily granta certificate of reasonable doubt in this case, he agreed. There wasnothing left, therefore, but for Cowperwood to return at this late hourwith the deputy sheriff to the county jail, where he must now remain forfive days at least--possibly longer.The jail in question, which was known locally as Moyamensing Prison,was located at Tenth and Reed Streets, and from an architectural andartistic point of view was not actually displeasing to the eye. Itconsisted of a central portion--prison, residence for the sheriff orwhat you will--three stories high, with a battlemented cornice and around battlemented tower about one-third as high as the central portionitself, and two wings, each two stories high, with battlemented turretsat either end, giving it a highly castellated and consequently, from theAmerican point of view, a very prison-like appearance. The facade of theprison, which was not more than thirty-five feet high for the centralportion, nor more than twenty-five feet for the wings, was set back atleast a hundred feet from the street, and was continued at either end,from the wings to the end of the street block, by a stone wall all oftwenty feet high. The structure was not severely prison-like, for thecentral portion was pierced by rather large, unbarred apertures hung onthe two upper stories with curtains, and giving the whole front arather pleasant and residential air. The wing to the right, as one stoodlooking in from the street, was the section known as the county jailproper, and was devoted to the care of prisoners serving short-termsentences on some judicial order. The wing to the left was devotedexclusively to the care and control of untried prisoners. The wholebuilding was built of a smooth, light-colored stone, which on a snowynight like this, with the few lamps that were used in it glowingfeebly in the dark, presented an eery, fantastic, almost supernaturalappearance.It was a rough and blowy night when Cowperwood started for thisinstitution under duress. The wind was driving the snow before it incurious, interesting whirls. Eddie Zanders, the sheriff's deputy onguard at the court of Quarter Sessions, accompanied him and his fatherand Steger. Zanders was a little man, dark, with a short, stubbymustache, and a shrewd though not highly intelligent eye. He was anxiousfirst to uphold his dignity as a deputy sheriff, which was a veryimportant position in his estimation, and next to turn an honest pennyif he could. He knew little save the details of his small world, whichconsisted of accompanying prisoners to and from the courts and thejails, and seeing that they did not get away. He was not unfriendly toa particular type of prisoner--the well-to-do or moderatelyprosperous--for he had long since learned that it paid to be so.To-night he offered a few sociable suggestions--viz., that it was ratherrough, that the jail was not so far but that they could walk, and thatSheriff Jaspers would, in all likelihood, be around or could be aroused.Cowperwood scarcely heard. He was thinking of his mother and his wifeand of Aileen.When the jail was reached he was led to the central portion, as it washere that the sheriff, Adlai Jaspers, had his private office. Jaspershad recently been elected to office, and was inclined to conform to alloutward appearances, in so far as the proper conduct of his office wasconcerned, without in reality inwardly conforming. Thus it was generallyknown among the politicians that one way he had of fattening his ratherlean salary was to rent private rooms and grant special privileges toprisoners who had the money to pay for the same. Other sheriffs had doneit before him. In fact, when Jaspers was inducted into office, severalprisoners were already enjoying these privileges, and it was not a partof his scheme of things to disturb them. The rooms that he let to the“right parties,” as he invariably put it, were in the central portionof the jail, where were his own private living quarters. They wereunbarred, and not at all cell-like. There was no particular danger ofescape, for a guard stood always at his private door instructed “tokeep an eye” on the general movements of all the inmates. A prisoner soaccommodated was in many respects quite a free person. His meals wereserved to him in his room, if he wished. He could read or play cards, orreceive guests; and if he had any favorite musical instrument, that wasnot denied him. There was just one rule that had to be complied with. Ifhe were a public character, and any newspaper men called, he had to bebrought down-stairs into the private interviewing room in order thatthey might not know that he was not confined in a cell like any otherprisoner.Nearly all of these facts had been brought to Cowperwood's attentionbeforehand by Steger; but for all that, when he crossed the threshold ofthe jail a peculiar sensation of strangeness and defeat came over him.He and his party were conducted to a little office to the left ofthe entrance, where were only a desk and a chair, dimly lighted bya low-burning gas-jet. Sheriff Jaspers, rotund and ruddy, met them,greeting them in quite a friendly way. Zanders was dismissed, and wentbriskly about his affairs.“A bad night, isn't it?” observed Jaspers, turning up the gas andpreparing to go through the routine of registering his prisoner. Stegercame over and held a short, private conversation with him in his corner,over his desk which resulted presently in the sheriff's face lightingup.“Oh, certainly, certainly! That's all right, Mr. Steger, to be sure!Why, certainly!”Cowperwood, eyeing the fat sheriff from his position, understood whatit was all about. He had regained completely his critical attitude, hiscool, intellectual poise. So this was the jail, and this was the fatmediocrity of a sheriff who was to take care of him. Very good. Hewould make the best of it. He wondered whether he was to besearched--prisoners usually were--but he soon discovered that he was notto be.“That's all right, Mr. Cowperwood,” said Jaspers, getting up. “I guessI can make you comfortable, after a fashion. We're not running a hotelhere, as you know”--he chuckled to himself--“but I guess I can make youcomfortable. John,” he called to a sleepy factotum, who appeared fromanother room, rubbing his eyes, “is the key to Number Six down here?”“Yes, sir.”“Let me have it.”John disappeared and returned, while Steger explained to Cowperwood thatanything he wanted in the way of clothing, etc., could be brought in.Steger himself would stop round next morning and confer with him, aswould any of the members of Cowperwood's family whom he wished to see.Cowperwood immediately explained to his father his desire for as littleof this as possible. Joseph or Edward might come in the morning andbring a grip full of underwear, etc.; but as for the others, let themwait until he got out or had to remain permanently. He did think ofwriting Aileen, cautioning her to do nothing; but the sheriff nowbeckoned, and he quietly followed. Accompanied by his father and Steger,he ascended to his new room.It was a simple, white-walled chamber fifteen by twenty feet in size,rather high-ceiled, supplied with a high-backed, yellow wooden bed,a yellow bureau, a small imitation-cherry table, three very ordinarycane-seated chairs with carved hickory-rod backs, cherry-stained also,and a wash-stand of yellow-stained wood to match the bed, containinga washbasin, a pitcher, a soap-dish, uncovered, and a small, cheap,pink-flowered tooth and shaving brush mug, which did not match theother ware and which probably cost ten cents. The value of this roomto Sheriff Jaspers was what he could get for it in cases likethis--twenty-five to thirty-five dollars a week. Cowperwood would paythirty-five.Cowperwood walked briskly to the window, which gave out on the lawn infront, now embedded in snow, and said he thought this was all right.Both his father and Steger were willing and anxious to confer with himfor hours, if he wished; but there was nothing to say. He did not wishto talk.“Let Ed bring in some fresh linen in the morning and a couple of suitsof clothes, and I will be all right. George can get my things together.” He was referring to a family servant who acted as valet and in othercapacities. “Tell Lillian not to worry. I'm all right. I'd rather shewould not come here so long as I'm going to be out in five days. If I'mnot, it will be time enough then. Kiss the kids for me.” And he smiledgood-naturedly.After his unfulfilled predictions in regard to the result of thispreliminary trial Steger was almost afraid to suggest confidentlywhat the State Supreme Court would or would not do; but he had to saysomething.“I don't think you need worry about what the outcome of my appeal willbe, Frank. I'll get a certificate of reasonable doubt, and that's asgood as a stay of two months, perhaps longer. I don't suppose the bailwill be more than thirty thousand dollars at the outside. You'll be outagain in five or six days, whatever happens.”Cowperwood said that he hoped so, and suggested that they drop mattersfor the night. After a few fruitless parleys his father and Stegerfinally said good night, leaving him to his own private reflections. Hewas tired, however, and throwing off his clothes, tucked himself in hismediocre bed, and was soon fast asleep.Chapter XLVSay what one will about prison life in general, modify it ever so muchby special chambers, obsequious turnkeys, a general tendency to make oneas comfortable as possible, a jail is a jail, and there is no gettingaway from that. Cowperwood, in a room which was not in any way inferiorto that of the ordinary boarding-house, was nevertheless conscious ofthe character of that section of this real prison which was not yet hisportion. He knew that there were cells there, probably greasy and smellyand vermin-infested, and that they were enclosed by heavy iron bars,which would have as readily clanked on him as on those who were nowtherein incarcerated if he had not had the price to pay for somethingbetter. So much for the alleged equality of man, he thought, which gaveto one man, even within the grim confines of the machinery of justice,such personal liberty as he himself was now enjoying, and to another,because he chanced to lack wit or presence or friends or wealth, deniedthe more comfortable things which money would buy.The morning after the trial, on waking, he stirred curiously, andthen it suddenly came to him that he was no longer in the free andcomfortable atmosphere of his own bedroom, but in a jail-cell, or ratherits very comfortable substitute, a sheriff's rented bedroom. He got upand looked out the window. The ground outside and Passayunk Avenuewere white with snow. Some wagons were silently lumbering by. A fewPhiladelphians were visible here and there, going to and fro on morningerrands. He began to think at once what he must do, how he must actto carry on his business, to rehabilitate himself; and as he did so hedressed and pulled the bell-cord, which had been indicated to him, andwhich would bring him an attendant who would build him a fire and laterbring him something to eat. A shabby prison attendant in a blue uniform,conscious of Cowperwood's superiority because of the room he occupied,laid wood and coal in the grate and started a fire, and later broughthim his breakfast, which was anything but prison fare, though poorenough at that.After that he was compelled to wait in patience several hours, in spiteof the sheriff's assumption of solicitous interest, before his brotherEdward was admitted with his clothes. An attendant, for a consideration,brought him the morning papers, and these, except for the financialnews, he read indifferently. Late in the afternoon Steger arrived,saying he had been busy having certain proceedings postponed, but thathe had arranged with the sheriff for Cowperwood to be permitted to seesuch of those as had important business with him.By this time, Cowperwood had written Aileen under no circumstances totry to see him, as he would be out by the tenth, and that either thatday, or shortly after, they would meet. As he knew, she wanted greatlyto see him, but he had reason to believe she was under surveillance bydetectives employed by her father. This was not true, but it was preyingon her fancy, and combined with some derogatory remarks dropped by Owenand Callum at the dinner table recently, had proved almost too much forher fiery disposition. But, because of Cowperwood's letter reaching herat the Calligans', she made no move until she read on the morning of thetenth that Cowperwood's plea for a certificate of reasonable doubt hadbeen granted, and that he would once more, for the time being at least,be a free man. This gave her courage to do what she had long wanted todo, and that was to teach her father that she could get along withouthim and that he could not make her do anything she did not want to do.She still had the two hundred dollars Cowperwood had given her and someadditional cash of her own--perhaps three hundred and fifty dollars inall. This she thought would be sufficient to see her to the end of heradventure, or at least until she could make some other arrangement forher personal well-being. From what she knew of the feeling of her familyfor her, she felt that the agony would all be on their side, not hers.Perhaps when her father saw how determined she was he would decide tolet her alone and make peace with her. She was determined to try it,anyhow, and immediately sent word to Cowperwood that she was going tothe Calligans and would welcome him to freedom.In a way, Cowperwood was rather gratified by Aileen's message, forhe felt that his present plight, bitter as it was, was largely due toButler's opposition and he felt no compunction in striking him throughhis daughter. His former feeling as to the wisdom of not enraging Butlerhad proved rather futile, he thought, and since the old man could not beplacated it might be just as well to have Aileen demonstrate to him thatshe was not without resources of her own and could live without him. Shemight force him to change his attitude toward her and possibly even tomodify some of his political machinations against him, Cowperwood. Anyport in a storm--and besides, he had now really nothing to lose, andinstinct told him that her move was likely to prove more favorable thanotherwise--so he did nothing to prevent it.She took her jewels, some underwear, a couple of dresses which shethought would be serviceable, and a few other things, and packed themin the most capacious portmanteau she had. Shoes and stockings came intoconsideration, and, despite her efforts, she found that she could notget in all that she wished. Her nicest hat, which she was determined totake, had to be carried outside. She made a separate bundle of it,which was not pleasant to contemplate. Still she decided to take it.She rummaged in a little drawer where she kept her money and jewels, andfound the three hundred and fifty dollars and put it in her purse. Itwasn't much, as Aileen could herself see, but Cowperwood would helpher. If he did not arrange to take care of her, and her father would notrelent, she would have to get something to do. Little she knew of thesteely face the world presents to those who have not been practicallytrained and are not economically efficient. She did not understand thebitter reaches of life at all. She waited, humming for effect, until sheheard her father go downstairs to dinner on this tenth day of December,then leaned over the upper balustrade to make sure that Owen, Callum,Norah, and her mother were at the table, and that Katy, the housemaid,was not anywhere in sight. Then she slipped into her father's den, and,taking a note from inside her dress, laid it on his desk, and went out.It was addressed to “Father,” and read:     Dear Father,--I just cannot do what you want me to.  I have     made up my mind that I love Mr. Cowperwood too much, so I am     going away.  Don't look for me with him.  You won't find me     where you think.  I am not going to him; I will not be     there.  I am going to try to get along by myself for a     while, until he wants me and can marry me.  I'm terribly     sorry; but I just can't do what you want.  I can't ever     forgive you for the way you acted to me. Tell mama and Norah     and the boys good-by for me.     AileenTo insure its discovery, she picked up Butler's heavy-rimmed spectacleswhich he employed always when reading, and laid them on it. For a momentshe felt very strange, somewhat like a thief--a new sensation forher. She even felt a momentary sense of ingratitude coupled with pain.Perhaps she was doing wrong. Her father had been very good to her. Hermother would feel so very bad. Norah would be sorry, and Callum andOwen. Still, they did not understand her any more. She was resentful ofher father's attitude. He might have seen what the point was; but no, hewas too old, too hidebound in religion and conventional ideas--he neverwould. He might never let her come back. Very well, she would get alongsomehow. She would show him. She might get a place as a school-teacher,and live with the Calligans a long while, if necessary, or teach music.She stole downstairs and out into the vestibule, opening the outer doorand looking out into the street. The lamps were already flaring in thedark, and a cool wind was blowing. Her portmanteau was heavy, but shewas quite strong. She walked briskly to the corner, which was some fiftyfeet away, and turned south, walking rather nervously and irritably, forthis was a new experience for her, and it all seemed so undignified, sounlike anything she was accustomed to doing. She put her bag down ona street corner, finally, to rest. A boy whistling in the distanceattracted her attention, and as he drew near she called to him: “Boy!Oh, boy!”He came over, looking at her curiously.“Do you want to earn some money?”“Yes, ma'am,” he replied politely, adjusting a frowsy cap over one ear.“Carry this bag for me,” said Aileen, and he picked it up and marchedoff.In due time she arrived at the Calligans', and amid much excitement wasinstalled in the bosom of her new home. She took her situation withmuch nonchalance, once she was properly placed, distributing her toiletarticles and those of personal wear with quiet care. The fact that shewas no longer to have the services of Kathleen, the maid who had servedher and her mother and Norah jointly, was odd, though not trying. Shescarcely felt that she had parted from these luxuries permanently, andso made herself comfortable.Mamie Calligan and her mother were adoring slaveys, so she was notentirely out of the atmosphere which she craved and to which she wasaccustomed.Chapter XLVIMeanwhile, in the Butler home the family was assembling for dinner. Mrs.Butler was sitting in rotund complacency at the foot of the table, hergray hair combed straight back from her round, shiny forehead. She hadon a dark-gray silk dress, trimmed with gray-and-white striped ribbon.It suited her florid temperament admirably. Aileen had dictated hermother's choice, and had seen that it had been properly made. Norah wasrefreshingly youthful in a pale-green dress, with red-velvet cuffs andcollar. She looked young, slender, gay. Her eyes, complexion and hairwere fresh and healthy. She was trifling with a string of coral beadswhich her mother had just given her.“Oh, look, Callum,” she said to her brother opposite her, who wasdrumming idly on the table with his knife and fork. “Aren't they lovely?Mama gave them to me.”“Mama does more for you than I would. You know what you'd get from me,don't you?”“What?”He looked at her teasingly. For answer Norah made a face at him. Justthen Owen came in and took his place at the table. Mrs. Butler sawNorah's grimace.“Well, that'll win no love from your brother, ye can depend on that,” she commented.“Lord, what a day!” observed Owen, wearily, unfolding his napkin. “I'vehad my fill of work for once.”“What's the trouble?” queried his mother, feelingly.“No real trouble, mother,” he replied. “Just everything--ducks anddrakes, that's all.”“Well, ye must ate a good, hearty meal now, and that'll refresh ye,” observed his mother, genially and feelingly. “Thompson”--she wasreferring to the family grocer--“brought us the last of his beans. Youmust have some of those.”“Sure, beans'll fix it, whatever it is, Owen,” joked Callum. “Mother'sgot the answer.”“They're fine, I'd have ye know,” replied Mrs. Butler, quite unconsciousof the joke.“No doubt of it, mother,” replied Callum. “Real brain-food. Let's feedsome to Norah.”“You'd better eat some yourself, smarty. My, but you're gay! I supposeyou're going out to see somebody. That's why.”“Right you are, Norah. Smart girl, you. Five or six. Ten to fifteenminutes each. I'd call on you if you were nicer.”“You would if you got the chance,” mocked Norah. “I'd have you know Iwouldn't let you. I'd feel very bad if I couldn't get somebody betterthan you.”“As good as, you mean,” corrected Callum.“Children, children!” interpolated Mrs. Butler, calmly, looking aboutfor old John, the servant. “You'll be losin' your tempers in a minute.Hush now. Here comes your father. Where's Aileen?”Butler walked heavily in and took his seat.John, the servant, appeared bearing a platter of beans among otherthings, and Mrs. Butler asked him to send some one to call Aileen.“It's gettin' colder, I'm thinkin',” said Butler, by way ofconversation, and eyeing Aileen's empty chair. She would come soonnow--his heavy problem. He had been very tactful these last twomonths--avoiding any reference to Cowperwood in so far as he could helpin her presence.“It's colder,” remarked Owen, “much colder. We'll soon see real winternow.”Old John began to offer the various dishes in order; but when all hadbeen served Aileen had not yet come.“See where Aileen is, John,” observed Mrs. Butler, interestedly. “Themeal will be gettin' cold.”Old John returned with the news that Aileen was not in her room.“Sure she must be somewhere,” commented Mrs. Butler, only slightlyperplexed. “She'll be comin', though, never mind, if she wants to. Sheknows it's meal-time.”The conversation drifted from a new water-works that was being plannedto the new city hall, then nearing completion; Cowperwood's financialand social troubles, and the state of the stock market generally; a newgold-mine in Arizona; the departure of Mrs. Mollenhauer the followingTuesday for Europe, with appropriate comments by Norah and Callum; and aChristmas ball that was going to be given for charity.“Aileen'll be wantin' to go to that,” commented Mrs. Butler.“I'm going, you bet,” put in Norah.“Who's going to take you?” asked Callum.“That's my affair, mister,” she replied, smartly.The meal was over, and Mrs. Butler strolled up to Aileen's room to seewhy she had not come down to dinner. Butler entered his den, wishing somuch that he could take his wife into his confidence concerning all thatwas worrying him. On his desk, as he sat down and turned up the light,he saw the note. He recognized Aileen's handwriting at once. What couldshe mean by writing him? A sense of the untoward came to him, andhe tore it open slowly, and, putting on his glasses, contemplated itsolemnly.So Aileen was gone. The old man stared at each word as if it had beenwritten in fire. She said she had not gone with Cowperwood. It waspossible, just the same, that he had run away from Philadelphia andtaken her with him. This was the last straw. This ended it. Aileenlured away from home--to where--to what? Butler could scarcely believe,though, that Cowperwood had tempted her to do this. He had too much atstake; it would involve his own and Butler's families. The papers wouldbe certain to get it quickly. He got up, crumpling the paper in hishand, and turned about at a noise. His wife was coming in. He pulledhimself together and shoved the letter in his pocket.“Aileen's not in her room,” she said, curiously. “She didn't sayanything to you about going out, did she?”“No,” he replied, truthfully, wondering how soon he should have to tellhis wife.“That's odd,” observed Mrs. Butler, doubtfully. “She must have gone outafter somethin'. It's a wonder she wouldn't tell somebody.”Butler gave no sign. He dared not. “She'll be back,” he said, more inorder to gain time than anything else. He was sorry to have to pretend.Mrs. Butler went out, and he closed the door. Then he took outthe letter and read it again. The girl was crazy. She was doing anabsolutely wild, inhuman, senseless thing. Where could she go, exceptto Cowperwood? She was on the verge of a public scandal, and this wouldproduce it. There was just one thing to do as far as he could see.Cowperwood, if he were still in Philadelphia, would know. He would go tohim--threaten, cajole, actually destroy him, if necessary. Aileen mustcome back. She need not go to Europe, perhaps, but she must come backand behave herself at least until Cowperwood could legitimately marryher. That was all he could expect now. She would have to wait, and someday perhaps he could bring himself to accept her wretched proposition.Horrible thought! It would kill her mother, disgrace her sister. He gotup, took down his hat, put on his overcoat, and started out.Arriving at the Cowperwood home he was shown into the reception-room.Cowperwood at the time was in his den looking over some private papers.When the name of Butler was announced he immediately went down-stairs.It was characteristic of the man that the announcement of Butler'spresence created no stir in him whatsoever. So Butler had come. Thatmeant, of course, that Aileen had gone. Now for a battle, not of words,but of weights of personalities. He felt himself to be intellectually,socially, and in every other way the more powerful man of the two. Thatspiritual content of him which we call life hardened to the texture ofsteel. He recalled that although he had told his wife and his fatherthat the politicians, of whom Butler was one, were trying to make ascapegoat of him, Butler, nevertheless, was not considered to be whollyalienated as a friend, and civility must prevail. He would like verymuch to placate him if he could, to talk out the hard facts of life in aquiet and friendly way. But this matter of Aileen had to be adjusted nowonce and for all. And with that thought in his mind he walked quicklyinto Butler's presence.The old man, when he learned that Cowperwood was in and would see him,determined to make his contact with the financier as short and effectiveas possible. He moved the least bit when he heard Cowperwood's step, aslight and springy as ever.“Good evening, Mr. Butler,” said Cowperwood, cheerfully, when he sawhim, extending his hand. “What can I do for you?”“Ye can take that away from in front of me, for one thing,” said Butler,grimly referring to his hand. “I have no need of it. It's my daughterI've come to talk to ye about, and I want plain answers. Where is she?”“You mean Aileen?” said Cowperwood, looking at him with steady, curious,unrevealing eyes, and merely interpolating this to obtain a moment forreflection. “What can I tell you about her?”“Ye can tell me where she is, that I know. And ye can make her come backto her home, where she belongs. It was bad fortune that ever brought yeacross my doorstep; but I'll not bandy words with ye here. Ye'll tell mewhere my daughter is, and ye'll leave her alone from now, or I'll--” Theold man's fists closed like a vise, and his chest heaved with suppressedrage. “Ye'll not be drivin' me too far, man, if ye're wise,” he added,after a time, recovering his equanimity in part. “I want no truck withye. I want my daughter.”“Listen, Mr. Butler,” said Cowperwood, quite calmly, relishing thesituation for the sheer sense of superiority it gave him. “I want tobe perfectly frank with you, if you will let me. I may know where yourdaughter is, and I may not. I may wish to tell you, and I may not. Shemay not wish me to. But unless you wish to talk with me in a civil waythere is no need of our going on any further. You are privileged to dowhat you like. Won't you come up-stairs to my room? We can talk morecomfortably there.”Butler looked at his former protege in utter astonishment. He hadnever before in all his experience come up against a more ruthlesstype--suave, bland, forceful, unterrified. This man had certainlycome to him as a sheep, and had turned out to be a ravening wolf. Hisincarceration had not put him in the least awe.“I'll not come up to your room,” Butler said, “and ye'll not get out ofPhiladelphy with her if that's what ye're plannin'. I can see to that.Ye think ye have the upper hand of me, I see, and ye're anxious to makesomething of it. Well, ye're not. It wasn't enough that ye come to meas a beggar, cravin' the help of me, and that I took ye in and helped yeall I could--ye had to steal my daughter from me in the bargain. If itwasn't for the girl's mother and her sister and her brothers--dacentermen than ever ye'll know how to be--I'd brain ye where ye stand. Takin'a young, innocent girl and makin' an evil woman out of her, and ye amarried man! It's a God's blessin' for ye that it's me, and not one ofme sons, that's here talkin' to ye, or ye wouldn't be alive to say whatye'd do.”The old man was grim but impotent in his rage.“I'm sorry, Mr. Butler,” replied Cowperwood, quietly. “I'm willing toexplain, but you won't let me. I'm not planning to run away with yourdaughter, nor to leave Philadelphia. You ought to know me well enough toknow that I'm not contemplating anything of that kind; my interests aretoo large. You and I are practical men. We ought to be able to talkthis matter over together and reach an understanding. I thought onceof coming to you and explaining this; but I was quite sure you wouldn'tlisten to me. Now that you are here I would like to talk to you. If youwill come up to my room I will be glad to--otherwise not. Won't you comeup?”Butler saw that Cowperwood had the advantage. He might as well go up.Otherwise it was plain he would get no information.“Very well,” he said.Cowperwood led the way quite amicably, and, having entered his privateoffice, closed the door behind him.“We ought to be able to talk this matter over and reach anunderstanding,” he said again, when they were in the room and he hadclosed the door. “I am not as bad as you think, though I know I appearvery bad.” Butler stared at him in contempt. “I love your daughter, andshe loves me. I know you are asking yourself how I can do this whileI am still married; but I assure you I can, and that I do. I am nothappily married. I had expected, if this panic hadn't come along, toarrange with my wife for a divorce and marry Aileen. My intentions areperfectly good. The situation which you can complain of, of course, isthe one you encountered a few weeks ago. It was indiscreet, but it wasentirely human. Your daughter does not complain--she understands.” Atthe mention of his daughter in this connection Butler flushed with rageand shame, but he controlled himself.“And ye think because she doesn't complain that it's all right, do ye?” he asked, sarcastically.“From my point of view, yes; from yours no. You have one view of life,Mr. Butler, and I have another.”“Ye're right there,” put in Butler, “for once, anyhow.”“That doesn't prove that either of us is right or wrong. In my judgmentthe present end justifies the means. The end I have in view is to marryAileen. If I can possibly pull myself out of this financial scrape thatI am in I will do so. Of course, I would like to have your consentfor that--so would Aileen; but if we can't, we can't.” (Cowperwood wasthinking that while this might not have a very soothing effect on theold contractor's point of view, nevertheless it must make some appeal tohis sense of the possible or necessary. Aileen's present situationwas quite unsatisfactory without marriage in view. And even if he,Cowperwood, was a convicted embezzler in the eyes of the public, thatdid not make him so. He might get free and restore himself--wouldcertainly--and Aileen ought to be glad to marry him if she couldunder the circumstances. He did not quite grasp the depth of Butler'sreligious and moral prejudices.) “Lately,” he went on, “you have beendoing all you can, as I understand it, to pull me down, on account ofAileen, I suppose; but that is simply delaying what I want to do.”“Ye'd like me to help ye do that, I suppose?” suggested Butler, withinfinite disgust and patience.“I want to marry Aileen,” Cowperwood repeated, for emphasis' sake. “Shewants to marry me. Under the circumstances, however you may feel, youcan have no real objection to my doing that, I am sure; yet you go onfighting me--making it hard for me to do what you really know ought tobe done.”“Ye're a scoundrel,” said Butler, seeing through his motives quiteclearly. “Ye're a sharper, to my way of thinkin', and it's no child ofmine I want connected with ye. I'm not sayin', seein' that things areas they are, that if ye were a free man it wouldn't be better that sheshould marry ye. It's the one dacent thing ye could do--if ye would,which I doubt. But that's nayther here nor there now. What can ye wantwith her hid away somewhere? Ye can't marry her. Ye can't get a divorce.Ye've got your hands full fightin' your lawsuits and kapin' yourself outof jail. She'll only be an added expense to ye, and ye'll be wantin' allthe money ye have for other things, I'm thinkin'. Why should ye want tobe takin' her away from a dacent home and makin' something out of herthat ye'd be ashamed to marry if you could? The laist ye could do, ifye were any kind of a man at all, and had any of that thing that ye'replased to call love, would be to lave her at home and keep her asrespectable as possible. Mind ye, I'm not thinkin' she isn't tenthousand times too good for ye, whatever ye've made of her. But if yehad any sinse of dacency left, ye wouldn't let her shame her family andbreak her old mother's heart, and that for no purpose except to makeher worse than she is already. What good can ye get out of it, now? Whatgood can ye expect to come of it? Be hivins, if ye had any sinse at allI should think ye could see that for yerself. Ye're only addin' to yourtroubles, not takin' away from them--and she'll not thank ye for thatlater on.”He stopped, rather astonished that he should have been drawn into anargument. His contempt for this man was so great that he couldscarcely look at him, but his duty and his need was to get Aileen back.Cowperwood looked at him as one who gives serious attention to another.He seemed to be thinking deeply over what Butler had said.“To tell you the truth, Mr. Butler,” he said, “I did not want Aileen toleave your home at all; and she will tell you so, if you ever talkto her about it. I did my best to persuade her not to, and when sheinsisted on going the only thing I could do was to be sure she wouldbe comfortable wherever she went. She was greatly outraged to think youshould have put detectives on her trail. That, and the fact that youwanted to send her away somewhere against her will, was the principalreasons for her leaving. I assure you I did not want her to go. I thinkyou forget sometimes, Mr. Butler, that Aileen is a grown woman, andthat she has a will of her own. You think I control her to her greatdisadvantage. As a matter of fact, I am very much in love with her, andhave been for three or four years; and if you know anything about loveyou know that it doesn't always mean control. I'm not doing Aileen anyinjustice when I say that she has had as much influence on me as I havehad on her. I love her, and that's the cause of all the trouble. Youcome and insist that I shall return your daughter to you. As a matter offact, I don't know whether I can or not. I don't know that she would goif I wanted her to. She might turn on me and say that I didn't care forher any more. That is not true, and I would not want her to feel thatway. She is greatly hurt, as I told you, by what you did to her, andthe fact that you want her to leave Philadelphia. You can do as much toremedy that as I can. I could tell you where she is, but I do not knowthat I want to. Certainly not until I know what your attitude toward herand this whole proposition is to be.”He paused and looked calmly at the old contractor, who eyed him grimlyin return.“What proposition are ye talkin' about?” asked Butler, interested bythe peculiar developments of this argument. In spite of himself he wasgetting a slightly different angle on the whole situation. The scenewas shifting to a certain extent. Cowperwood appeared to be reasonablysincere in the matter. His promises might all be wrong, but perhaps hedid love Aileen; and it was possible that he did intend to get a divorcefrom his wife some time and marry her. Divorce, as Butler knew, wasagainst the rules of the Catholic Church, which he so much revered. Thelaws of God and any sense of decency commanded that Cowperwood shouldnot desert his wife and children and take up with another woman--noteven Aileen, in order to save her. It was a criminal thing to plan,sociologically speaking, and showed what a villain Cowperwood inherentlywas; but, nevertheless, Cowperwood was not a Catholic, his views of lifewere not the same as his own, Butler's, and besides and worst of all (nodoubt due in part to Aileen's own temperament), he had compromised hersituation very materially. She might not easily be restored to a senseof the normal and decent, and so the matter was worth taking intothought. Butler knew that ultimately he could not countenance any suchthing--certainly not, and keep his faith with the Church--but he washuman enough none the less to consider it. Besides, he wanted Aileen tocome back; and Aileen from now on, he knew, would have some say as towhat her future should be.“Well, it's simple enough,” replied Cowperwood. “I should like to haveyou withdraw your opposition to Aileen's remaining in Philadelphia, forone thing; and for another, I should like you to stop your attackson me.” Cowperwood smiled in an ingratiating way. He hoped reallyto placate Butler in part by his generous attitude throughout thisprocedure. “I can't make you do that, of course, unless you want to. Imerely bring it up, Mr. Butler, because I am sure that if it hadn't beenfor Aileen you would not have taken the course you have taken toward me.I understood you received an anonymous letter, and that afternoon youcalled your loan with me. Since then I have heard from one source andanother that you were strongly against me, and I merely wish to say thatI wish you wouldn't be. I am not guilty of embezzling any sixty thousanddollars, and you know it. My intentions were of the best. I did notthink I was going to fail at the time I used those certificates, andif it hadn't been for several other loans that were called I would havegone on to the end of the month and put them back in time, as I alwayshad. I have always valued your friendship very highly, and I am verysorry to lose it. Now I have said all I am going to say.”Butler looked at Cowperwood with shrewd, calculating eyes. The man hadsome merit, but much unconscionable evil in him. Butler knew very wellhow he had taken the check, and a good many other things in connectionwith it. The manner in which he had played his cards to-night was on apar with the way he had run to him on the night of the fire. He was justshrewd and calculating and heartless.“I'll make ye no promise,” he said. “Tell me where my daughter is, andI'll think the matter over. Ye have no claim on me now, and I owe ye nogood turn. But I'll think it over, anyhow.”“That's quite all right,” replied Cowperwood. “That's all I can expect.But what about Aileen? Do you expect her to leave Philadelphia?”“Not if she settles down and behaves herself: but there must be an endof this between you and her. She's disgracin' her family and ruinin' hersoul in the bargain. And that's what you are doin' with yours. It'llbe time enough to talk about anything else when you're a free man. Morethan that I'll not promise.”Cowperwood, satisfied that this move on Aileen's part had done her areal service if it had not aided him especially, was convinced that itwould be a good move for her to return to her home at once. He couldnot tell how his appeal to the State Supreme Court would eventuate. Hismotion for a new trial which was now to be made under the privilege ofthe certificate of reasonable doubt might not be granted, in which casehe would have to serve a term in the penitentiary. If he were compelledto go to the penitentiary she would be safer--better off in the bosom ofher family. His own hands were going to be exceedingly full for thenext two months until he knew how his appeal was coming out. And afterthat--well, after that he would fight on, whatever happened.During all the time that Cowperwood had been arguing his case in thisfashion he had been thinking how he could adjust this compromise so asto retain the affection of Aileen and not offend her sensibilities byurging her to return. He knew that she would not agree to give up seeinghim, and he was not willing that she should. Unless he had a good andsufficient reason, he would be playing a wretched part by telling Butlerwhere she was. He did not intend to do so until he saw exactly how to doit--the way that would make it most acceptable to Aileen. He knew thatshe would not long be happy where she was. Her flight was due in part toButler's intense opposition to himself and in part to his determinationto make her leave Philadelphia and behave; but this last was now in partobviated. Butler, in spite of his words, was no longer a stern Nemesis.He was a melting man--very anxious to find his daughter, very willingto forgive her. He was whipped, literally beaten, at his own game, andCowperwood could see it in the old man's eyes. If he himself could talkto Aileen personally and explain just how things were, he felt sure hecould make her see that it would be to their mutual advantage, for thepresent at least, to have the matter amicably settled. The thing to dowas to make Butler wait somewhere--here, possibly--while he went andtalked to her. When she learned how things were she would probablyacquiesce.“The best thing that I can do under the circumstances,” he said, after atime, “would be to see Aileen in two or three days, and ask her what shewishes to do. I can explain the matter to her, and if she wants to goback, she can. I will promise to tell her anything that you say.”“Two or three days!” exclaimed Butler, irritably. “Two or threefiddlesticks! She must come home to-night. Her mother doesn't know she'sleft the place yet. To-night is the time! I'll go and fetch her meselfto-night.”“No, that won't do,” said Cowperwood. “I shall have to go myself. If youwish to wait here I will see what can be done, and let you know.”“Very well,” grunted Butler, who was now walking up and down with hishands behind his back. “But for Heaven's sake be quick about it. There'sno time to lose.” He was thinking of Mrs. Butler. Cowperwood called theservant, ordered his runabout, and told George to see that his privateoffice was not disturbed. Then, as Butler strolled to and fro in this,to him, objectionable room, Cowperwood drove rapidly away.Chapter XLVIIAlthough it was nearly eleven o'clock when he arrived at the Calligans',Aileen was not yet in bed. In her bedroom upstairs she was confidingto Mamie and Mrs. Calligan some of her social experiences when the bellrang, and Mrs. Calligan went down and opened the door to Cowperwood.“Miss Butler is here, I believe,” he said. “Will you tell her that thereis some one here from her father?” Although Aileen had instructed thather presence here was not to be divulged even to the members of herfamily the force of Cowperwood's presence and the mention of Butler'sname cost Mrs. Calligan her presence of mind. “Wait a moment,” she said;“I'll see.”She stepped back, and Cowperwood promptly stepped in, taking off his hatwith the air of one who was satisfied that Aileen was there. “Say to herthat I only want to speak to her for a few moments,” he called, as Mrs.Calligan went up-stairs, raising his voice in the hope that Aileen mighthear. She did, and came down promptly. She was very much astonishedto think that he should come so soon, and fancied, in her vanity, thatthere must be great excitement in her home. She would have greatlygrieved if there had not been.The Calligans would have been pleased to hear, but Cowperwood wascautious. As she came down the stairs he put his finger to his lips insign for silence, and said, “This is Miss Butler, I believe.”“Yes,” replied Aileen, with a secret smile. Her one desire was to kisshim. “What's the trouble darling?” she asked, softly.“You'll have to go back, dear, I'm afraid,” whispered Cowperwood.“You'll have everything in a turmoil if you don't. Your mother doesn'tknow yet, it seems, and your father is over at my place now, waiting foryou. It may be a good deal of help to me if you do. Let me tell you--” He went off into a complete description of his conversation with Butlerand his own views in the matter. Aileen's expression changed from timeto time as the various phases of the matter were put before her; but,persuaded by the clearness with which he put the matter, and byhis assurance that they could continue their relations as beforeuninterrupted, once this was settled, she decided to return. In a way,her father's surrender was a great triumph. She made her farewells tothe Calligans, saying, with a smile, that they could not do without herat home, and that she would send for her belongings later, and returnedwith Cowperwood to his own door. There he asked her to wait in therunabout while he sent her father down.“Well?” said Butler, turning on him when he opened the door, and notseeing Aileen.“You'll find her outside in my runabout,” observed Cowperwood. “You mayuse that if you choose. I will send my man for it.”“No, thank you; we'll walk,” said Butler.Cowperwood called his servant to take charge of the vehicle, and Butlerstalked solemnly out.He had to admit to himself that the influence of Cowperwood over hisdaughter was deadly, and probably permanent. The best he could do wouldbe to keep her within the precincts of the home, where she might still,possibly, be brought to her senses. He held a very guarded conversationwith her on his way home, for fear that she would take additionaloffense. Argument was out of the question.“Ye might have talked with me once more, Aileen,” he said, “before yeleft. Yer mother would be in a terrible state if she knew ye were gone.She doesn't know yet. Ye'll have to say ye stayed somewhere to dinner.”“I was at the Calligans,” replied Aileen. “That's easy enough. Mamawon't think anything about it.”“It's a sore heart I have, Aileen. I hope ye'll think over your ways anddo better. I'll not say anythin' more now.”Aileen returned to her room, decidedly triumphant in her mood for themoment, and things went on apparently in the Butler household as before.But those who imagine that this defeat permanently altered the attitudeof Butler toward Cowperwood are mistaken.In the meanwhile between the day of his temporary release and thehearing of his appeal which was two months off, Cowperwood was going ondoing his best to repair his shattered forces. He took up his workwhere he left off; but the possibility of reorganizing his businesswas distinctly modified since his conviction. Because of his action intrying to protect his largest creditors at the time of his failure, hefancied that once he was free again, if ever he got free, his credit,other things being equal, would be good with those who could helphim most--say, Cooke & Co., Clark & Co., Drexel & Co., and the GirardNational Bank--providing his personal reputation had not been too badlyinjured by his sentence. Fortunately for his own hopefulness of mind,he failed fully to realize what a depressing effect a legal decision ofthis character, sound or otherwise, had on the minds of even his mostenthusiastic supporters.His best friends in the financial world were by now convinced that hiswas a sinking ship. A student of finance once observed that nothing isso sensitive as money, and the financial mind partakes largely of thequality of the thing in which it deals. There was no use trying todo much for a man who might be going to prison for a term of years.Something might be done for him possibly in connection with thegovernor, providing he lost his case before the Supreme Court and wasactually sentenced to prison; but that was two months off, or more, andthey could not tell what the outcome of that would be. So Cowperwood'srepeated appeals for assistance, extension of credit, or the acceptanceof some plan he had for his general rehabilitation, were met with thekindly evasions of those who were doubtful. They would think it over.They would see about it. Certain things were standing in the way. Andso on, and so forth, through all the endless excuses of those who donot care to act. In these days he went about the money world in hiscustomary jaunty way, greeting all those whom he had known there manyyears and pretending, when asked, to be very hopeful, to be doing verywell; but they did not believe him, and he really did not care whetherthey did or not. His business was to persuade or over-persuade any onewho could really be of assistance to him, and at this task he workeduntiringly, ignoring all others.“Why, hello, Frank,” his friends would call, on seeing him. “How are yougetting on?”“Fine! Fine!” he would reply, cheerfully. “Never better,” and he wouldexplain in a general way how his affairs were being handled. He conveyedmuch of his own optimism to all those who knew him and were interestedin his welfare, but of course there were many who were not.In these days also, he and Steger were constantly to be met with incourts of law, for he was constantly being reexamined in some petitionin bankruptcy. They were heartbreaking days, but he did not flinch. Hewanted to stay in Philadelphia and fight the thing to a finish--puttinghimself where he had been before the fire; rehabilitating himself inthe eyes of the public. He felt that he could do it, too, if he werenot actually sent to prison for a long term; and even then, so naturallyoptimistic was his mood, when he got out again. But, in so far asPhiladelphia was concerned, distinctly he was dreaming vain dreams.One of the things militating against him was the continued oppositionof Butler and the politicians. Somehow--no one could have said exactlywhy--the general political feeling was that the financier and the formercity treasurer would lose their appeals and eventually be sentencedtogether. Stener, in spite of his original intention to plead guilty andtake his punishment without comment, had been persuaded by some of hispolitical friends that it would be better for his future's sake to pleadnot guilty and claim that his offense had been due to custom, ratherthan to admit his guilt outright and so seem not to have hadany justification whatsoever. This he did, but he was convictednevertheless. For the sake of appearances, a trumped-up appeal was madewhich was now before the State Supreme Court.Then, too, due to one whisper and another, and these originating withthe girl who had written Butler and Cowperwood's wife, there was at thistime a growing volume of gossip relating to the alleged relations ofCowperwood with Butler's daughter, Aileen. There had been a house inTenth Street. It had been maintained by Cowperwood for her. No wonderButler was so vindictive. This, indeed, explained much. And even in thepractical, financial world, criticism was now rather against Cowperwoodthan his enemies. For, was it not a fact, that at the inception of hiscareer, he had been befriended by Butler? And what a way to reward thatfriendship! His oldest and firmest admirers wagged their heads. Forthey sensed clearly that this was another illustration of that innate “Isatisfy myself” attitude which so regulated Cowperwood's conduct. He wasa strong man, surely--and a brilliant one. Never had Third Street seen amore pyrotechnic, and yet fascinating and financially aggressive, andat the same time, conservative person. Yet might one not fairly temptNemesis by a too great daring and egotism? Like Death, it loves ashining mark. He should not, perhaps, have seduced Butler's daughter;unquestionably he should not have so boldly taken that check, especiallyafter his quarrel and break with Stener. He was a little too aggressive.Was it not questionable whether--with such a record--he could berestored to his former place here? The bankers and business men who wereclosest to him were decidedly dubious.But in so far as Cowperwood and his own attitude toward life wasconcerned, at this time--the feeling he had--“to satisfy myself”--whencombined with his love of beauty and love and women, still made himruthless and thoughtless. Even now, the beauty and delight of a girllike Aileen Butler were far more important to him than the good-will offifty million people, if he could evade the necessity of having theirgood-will. Previous to the Chicago fire and the panic, his star had beenso rapidly ascending that in the helter-skelter of great and favorableevents he had scarcely taken thought of the social significance of thething he was doing. Youth and the joy of life were in his blood. He feltso young, so vigorous, so like new grass looks and feels. The freshnessof spring evenings was in him, and he did not care. After thecrash, when one might have imagined he would have seen the wisdom ofrelinquishing Aileen for the time being, anyhow, he did not care to. Sherepresented the best of the wonderful days that had gone before. She wasa link between him and the past and a still-to-be triumphant future.His worst anxiety was that if he were sent to the penitentiary, oradjudged a bankrupt, or both, he would probably lose the privilege ofa seat on 'change, and that would close to him the most distinguishedavenue of his prosperity here in Philadelphia for some time, if notforever. At present, because of his complications, his seat had beenattached as an asset, and he could not act. Edward and Joseph, almostthe only employees he could afford, were still acting for him in a smallway; but the other members on 'change naturally suspected his brothersas his agents, and any talk that they might raise of going into businessfor themselves merely indicated to other brokers and bankers thatCowperwood was contemplating some concealed move which would notnecessarily be advantageous to his creditors, and against the lawanyhow. Yet he must remain on 'change, whatever happened, potentially ifnot actively; and so in his quick mental searchings he hit upon the ideathat in order to forfend against the event of his being put into prisonor thrown into bankruptcy, or both, he ought to form a subsidiary silentpartnership with some man who was or would be well liked on 'change, andwhom he could use as a cat's-paw and a dummy.Finally he hit upon a man who he thought would do. He did not amount tomuch--had a small business; but he was honest, and he liked Cowperwood.His name was Wingate--Stephen Wingate--and he was eking out a not toorobust existence in South Third Street as a broker. He was forty-fiveyears of age, of medium height, fairly thick-set, not at allunprepossessing, and rather intelligent and active, but not too forcefuland pushing in spirit. He really needed a man like Cowperwood to makehim into something, if ever he was to be made. He had a seat on 'change,and was well thought of; respected, but not so very prosperous. In timespast he had asked small favors of Cowperwood--the use of small loans ata moderate rate of interest, tips, and so forth; and Cowperwood, becausehe liked him and felt a little sorry for him, had granted them. NowWingate was slowly drifting down toward a none too successful old age,and was as tractable as such a man would naturally be. No one for thetime being would suspect him of being a hireling of Cowperwood's, andthe latter could depend on him to execute his orders to the letter. Hesent for him and had a long conversation with him. He told him just whatthe situation was, what he thought he could do for him as a partner, howmuch of his business he would want for himself, and so on, and found himagreeable.“I'll be glad to do anything you say, Mr. Cowperwood,” he assured thelatter. “I know whatever happens that you'll protect me, and there'snobody in the world I would rather work with or have greater respectfor. This storm will all blow over, and you'll be all right. We can tryit, anyhow. If it don't work out you can see what you want to do aboutit later.”And so this relationship was tentatively entered into and Cowperwoodbegan to act in a small way through Wingate.Chapter XLVIIIBy the time the State Supreme Court came to pass upon Cowperwood's pleafor a reversal of the lower court and the granting of a new trial, therumor of his connection with Aileen had spread far and wide. As has beenseen, it had done and was still doing him much damage. It confirmed theimpression, which the politicians had originally tried to create,that Cowperwood was the true criminal and Stener the victim. Hissemi-legitimate financial subtlety, backed indeed by his financialgenius, but certainly on this account not worse than that beingpracticed in peace and quiet and with much applause in many otherquarters--was now seen to be Machiavellian trickery of the mostdangerous type. He had a wife and two children; and without knowing whathis real thoughts had been the fruitfully imaginative public jumpedto the conclusion that he had been on the verge of deserting them,divorcing Lillian, and marrying Aileen. This was criminal enoughin itself, from the conservative point of view; but when taken inconnection with his financial record, his trial, conviction, and generalbankruptcy situation, the public was inclined to believe that he was allthe politicians said he was. He ought to be convicted. The SupremeCourt ought not to grant his prayer for a new trial. It is thus thatour inmost thoughts and intentions burst at times via no known materialagency into public thoughts. People know, when they cannotapparently possibly know why they know. There is such a thing asthought-transference and transcendentalism of ideas.It reached, for one thing, the ears of the five judges of the StateSupreme Court and of the Governor of the State.During the four weeks Cowperwood had been free on a certificate ofreasonable doubt both Harper Steger and Dennis Shannon appeared beforethe judges of the State Supreme Court, and argued pro and con as to thereasonableness of granting a new trial. Through his lawyer, Cowperwoodmade a learned appeal to the Supreme Court judges, showing how hehad been unfairly indicted in the first place, how there was no realsubstantial evidence on which to base a charge of larceny or anythingelse. It took Steger two hours and ten minutes to make his argument,and District-Attorney Shannon longer to make his reply, during which thefive judges on the bench, men of considerable legal experience but nogreat financial understanding, listened with rapt attention. Three ofthem, Judges Smithson, Rainey, and Beckwith, men most amenable to thepolitical feeling of the time and the wishes of the bosses, were littleinterested in this story of Cowperwood's transaction, particularly sincehis relations with Butler's daughter and Butler's consequent oppositionto him had come to them. They fancied that in a way they wereconsidering the whole matter fairly and impartially; but the manner inwhich Cowperwood had treated Butler was never out of their minds. Two ofthem, Judges Marvin and Rafalsky, who were men of larger sympathiesand understanding, but of no greater political freedom, did feel thatCowperwood had been badly used thus far, but they did not see what theycould do about it. He had put himself in a most unsatisfactory position,politically and socially. They understood and took into considerationhis great financial and social losses which Steger described accurately;and one of them, Judge Rafalsky, because of a similar event in his ownlife in so far as a girl was concerned, was inclined to argue stronglyagainst the conviction of Cowperwood; but, owing to his politicalconnections and obligations, he realized that it would not be wisepolitically to stand out against what was wanted. Still, when he andMarvin learned that Judges Smithson, Rainey, and Beckwith were inclinedto convict Cowperwood without much argument, they decided to hand down adissenting opinion. The point involved was a very knotty one. Cowperwoodmight carry it to the Supreme Court of the United States on somefundamental principle of liberty of action. Anyhow, other judges inother courts in Pennsylvania and elsewhere would be inclined to examinethe decision in this case, it was so important. The minority decidedthat it would not do them any harm to hand down a dissentingopinion. The politicians would not mind as long as Cowperwood wasconvicted--would like it better, in fact. It looked fairer. Besides,Marvin and Rafalsky did not care to be included, if they could helpit, with Smithson, Rainey, and Beckwith in a sweeping condemnation ofCowperwood. So all five judges fancied they were considering thewhole matter rather fairly and impartially, as men will under suchcircumstances. Smithson, speaking for himself and Judges Rainey andBeckwith on the eleventh of February, 1872, said:“The defendant, Frank A. Cowperwood, asks that the finding of the juryin the lower court (the State of Pennsylvania vs. Frank A. Cowperwood)be reversed and a new trial granted. This court cannot see that anysubstantial injustice has been done the defendant. [Here followeda rather lengthy resume of the history of the case, in which it waspointed out that the custom and precedent of the treasurer's office, tosay nothing of Cowperwood's easy method of doing business with the citytreasury, could have nothing to do with his responsibility for failureto observe both the spirit and the letter of the law.] The obtaining ofgoods under color of legal process [went on Judge Smithson, speakingfor the majority] may amount to larceny. In the present case it wasthe province of the jury to ascertain the felonious intent. They havesettled that against the defendant as a question of fact, and thecourt cannot say that there was not sufficient evidence to sustain theverdict. For what purpose did the defendant get the check? He was uponthe eve of failure. He had already hypothecated for his own debtsthe loan of the city placed in his hands for sale--he had unlawfullyobtained five hundred thousand dollars in cash as loans; and it isreasonable to suppose that he could obtain nothing more from the citytreasury by any ordinary means. Then it is that he goes there, and,by means of a falsehood implied if not actual, obtains sixty thousanddollars more. The jury has found the intent with which this was done.”It was in these words that Cowperwood's appeal for a new trial wasdenied by the majority.For himself and Judge Rafalsky, Judge Marvin, dissenting, wrote:“It is plain from the evidence in the case that Mr. Cowperwood did notreceive the check without authority as agent to do so, and it has notbeen clearly demonstrated that within his capacity as agent he did notperform or intend to perform the full measure of the obligation whichthe receipt of this check implied. It was shown in the trial that as amatter of policy it was understood that purchases for the sinking-fundshould not be known or understood in the market or by the public in thatlight, and that Mr. Cowperwood as agent was to have an absolutelyfree hand in the disposal of his assets and liabilities so long as theultimate result was satisfactory. There was no particular time when theloan was to be bought, nor was there any particular amount mentioned atany time to be purchased. Unless the defendant intended at the timehe received the check fraudulently to appropriate it he could not beconvicted even on the first count. The verdict of the jury does notestablish this fact; the evidence does not show conclusively that itcould be established; and the same jury, upon three other counts, foundthe defendant guilty without the semblance of shadow of evidence. Howcan we say that their conclusions upon the first count are unerring whenthey so palpably erred on the other counts? It is the opinion of theminority that the verdict of the jury in charging larceny on the firstcount is not valid, and that that verdict should be set aside and a newtrial granted.”Judge Rafalsky, a meditative and yet practical man of Jewish extractionbut peculiarly American appearance, felt called upon to write a thirdopinion which should especially reflect his own cogitation and bea criticism on the majority as well as a slight variation from andaddition to the points on which he agreed with Judge Marvin. It wasa knotty question, this, of Cowperwood's guilt, and, aside from thepolitical necessity of convicting him, nowhere was it more clearly shownthan in these varying opinions of the superior court. Judge Rafalskyheld, for instance, that if a crime had been committed at all, it wasnot that known as larceny, and he went on to add:“It is impossible, from the evidence, to come to the conclusion eitherthat Cowperwood did not intend shortly to deliver the loan or thatAlbert Stires, the chief clerk, or the city treasurer did not intendto part not only with the possession, but also and absolutely with theproperty in the check and the money represented by it. It was testifiedby Mr. Stires that Mr. Cowperwood said he had bought certificates ofcity loan to this amount, and it has not been clearly demonstrated thathe had not. His non-placement of the same in the sinking-fund must inall fairness, the letter of the law to the contrary notwithstanding, belooked upon and judged in the light of custom. Was it his custom so todo? In my judgment the doctrine now announced by the majority of thecourt extends the crime of constructive larceny to such limits that anybusiness man who engages in extensive and perfectly legitimate stocktransactions may, before he knows it, by a sudden panic in the marketor a fire, as in this instance, become a felon. When a principle isasserted which establishes such a precedent, and may lead to suchresults, it is, to say the least, startling.”While he was notably comforted by the dissenting opinions of the judgesin minority, and while he had been schooling himself to expect the worstin this connection and had been arranging his affairs as well as hecould in anticipation of it, Cowperwood was still bitterly disappointed.It would be untrue to say that, strong and self-reliant as he normallywas, he did not suffer. He was not without sensibilities of the highestorder, only they were governed and controlled in him by that cold ironthing, his reason, which never forsook him. There was no further appealpossible save to the United States Supreme Court, as Steger pointed out,and there only on the constitutionality of some phase of the decisionand his rights as a citizen, of which the Supreme Court of the UnitedStates must take cognizance. This was a tedious and expensive thing todo. It was not exactly obvious at the moment on what point he could makean appeal. It would involve a long delay--perhaps a year and a half,perhaps longer, at the end of which period he might have to serve hisprison term anyhow, and pending which he would certainly have to undergoincarceration for a time.Cowperwood mused speculatively for a few moments after hearing Steger'spresentation of the case. Then he said: “Well, it looks as if I have togo to jail or leave the country, and I've decided on jail. I can fightthis out right here in Philadelphia in the long run and win. I can getthat decision reversed in the Supreme Court, or I can get the Governorto pardon me after a time, I think. I'm not going to run away, andeverybody knows I'm not. These people who think they have me downhaven't got one corner of me whipped. I'll get out of this thing aftera while, and when I do I'll show some of these petty little politicianswhat it means to put up a real fight. They'll never get a damned dollarout of me now--not a dollar! I did intend to pay that five hundredthousand dollars some time if they had let me go. Now they can whistle!”He set his teeth and his gray eyes fairly snapped their determination.“Well, I've done all I can, Frank,” pleaded Steger, sympathetically.“You'll do me the justice to say that I put up the best fight I knewhow. I may not know how--you'll have to answer for that--but within mylimits I've done the best I can. I can do a few things more to carrythis thing on, if you want me to, but I'm going to leave it to you now.Whatever you say goes.”“Don't talk nonsense at this stage, Harper,” replied Cowperwood almosttestily. “I know whether I'm satisfied or not, and I'd soon tell you ifI wasn't. I think you might as well go on and see if you can find somedefinite grounds for carrying it to the Supreme Court, but meanwhileI'll begin my sentence. I suppose Payderson will be naming a day to haveme brought before him now shortly.”“It depends on how you'd like to have it, Frank. I could get a stayof sentence for a week maybe, or ten days, if it will do you any good.Shannon won't make any objection to that, I'm sure. There's only onehitch. Jaspers will be around here tomorrow looking for you. It's hisduty to take you into custody again, once he's notified that your appealhas been denied. He'll be wanting to lock you up unless you pay him,but we can fix that. If you do want to wait, and want any time off,I suppose he'll arrange to let you out with a deputy; but I'm afraidyou'll have to stay there nights. They're pretty strict about that sincethat Albertson case of a few years ago.”Steger referred to the case of a noted bank cashier who, being let outof the county jail at night in the alleged custody of a deputy, waspermitted to escape. There had been emphatic and severe condemnation ofthe sheriff's office at the time, and since then, repute or no repute,money or no money, convicted criminals were supposed to stay in thecounty jail at night at least.Cowperwood meditated this calmly, looking out of the lawyer's windowinto Second Street. He did not much fear anything that might happento him in Jaspers's charge since his first taste of that gentleman'shospitality, although he did object to spending nights in the countyjail when his general term of imprisonment was being reduced no whitthereby. All that he could do now in connection with his affairs, unlesshe could have months of freedom, could be as well adjusted from a prisoncell as from his Third Street office--not quite, but nearly so. Anyhow,why parley? He was facing a prison term, and he might as well accept itwithout further ado. He might take a day or two finally to look afterhis affairs; but beyond that, why bother?“When, in the ordinary course of events, if you did nothing at all,would I come up for sentence?”“Oh, Friday or Monday, I fancy,” replied Steger. “I don't know what moveShannon is planning to make in this matter. I thought I'd walk aroundand see him in a little while.”“I think you'd better do that,” replied Cowperwood. “Friday or Mondaywill suit me, either way. I'm really not particular. Better make itMonday if you can. You don't suppose there is any way you can induceJaspers to keep his hands off until then? He knows I'm perfectlyresponsible.”“I don't know, Frank, I'm sure; I'll see. I'll go around and talk to himto-night. Perhaps a hundred dollars will make him relax the rigor of hisrules that much.”Cowperwood smiled grimly.“I fancy a hundred dollars would make Jaspers relax a whole lot ofrules,” he replied, and he got up to go.Steger arose also. “I'll see both these people, and then I'll callaround at your house. You'll be in, will you, after dinner?”“Yes.”They slipped on their overcoats and went out into the cold February day,Cowperwood back to his Third Street office, Steger to see Shannon andJaspers.Chapter XLIXThe business of arranging Cowperwood's sentence for Monday was soondisposed of through Shannon, who had no personal objection to anyreasonable delay.Steger next visited the county jail, close on to five o'clock, whenit was already dark. Sheriff Jaspers came lolling out from his privatelibrary, where he had been engaged upon the work of cleaning his pipe.“How are you, Mr. Steger?” he observed, smiling blandly. “How are you?Glad to see you. Won't you sit down? I suppose you're round here againon that Cowperwood matter. I just received word from the districtattorney that he had lost his case.”“That's it, Sheriff,” replied Steger, ingratiatingly. “He asked meto step around and see what you wanted him to do in the matter. JudgePayderson has just fixed the sentence time for Monday morning at teno'clock. I don't suppose you'll be much put out if he doesn't show uphere before Monday at eight o'clock, will you, or Sunday night, anyhow?He's perfectly reliable, as you know.” Steger was sounding Jaspersout, politely trying to make the time of Cowperwood's arrival a trivialmatter in order to avoid paying the hundred dollars, if possible. ButJaspers was not to be so easily disposed of. His fat face lengthenedconsiderably. How could Steger ask him such a favor and not even suggestthe slightest form of remuneration?“It's ag'in' the law, Mr. Steger, as you know,” he began, cautiouslyand complainingly. “I'd like to accommodate him, everything else beingequal, but since that Albertson case three years ago we've had to runthis office much more careful, and--”“Oh, I know, Sheriff,” interrupted Steger, blandly, “but this isn't anordinary case in any way, as you can see for yourself. Mr. Cowperwood isa very important man, and he has a great many things to attend to. Nowif it were only a mere matter of seventy-five or a hundred dollarsto satisfy some court clerk with, or to pay a fine, it would be easyenough, but--” He paused and looked wisely away, and Mr. Jaspers's facebegan to relax at once. The law against which it was ordinarily so hardto offend was not now so important. Steger saw that it was needless tointroduce any additional arguments.“It's a very ticklish business, this, Mr. Steger,” put in the sheriff,yieldingly, and yet with a slight whimper in his voice. “If anythingwere to happen, it would cost me my place all right. I don't like to doit under any circumstances, and I wouldn't, only I happen to know bothMr. Cowperwood and Mr. Stener, and I like 'em both. I don' thinkthey got their rights in this matter, either. I don't mind making anexception in this case if Mr. Cowperwood don't go about too publicly. Iwouldn't want any of the men in the district attorney's office to knowthis. I don't suppose he'll mind if I keep a deputy somewhere near allthe time for looks' sake. I have to, you know, really, under the law.He won't bother him any. Just keep on guard like.” Jaspers looked atMr. Steger very flatly and wisely--almost placatingly under thecircumstances--and Steger nodded.“Quite right, Sheriff, quite right. You're quite right,” and he drew outhis purse while the sheriff led the way very cautiously back into hislibrary.“I'd like to show you the line of law-books I'm fixing up for myselfin here, Mr. Steger,” he observed, genially, but meanwhile closing hisfingers gently on the small roll of ten-dollar bills Steger was handinghim. “We have occasional use for books of that kind here, as you see. Ithought it a good sort of thing to have them around.” He waved one armcomprehensively at the line of State reports, revised statutes, prisonregulations, etc., the while he put the money in his pocket and Stegerpretended to look.“A good idea, I think, Sheriff. Very good, indeed. So you think if Mr.Cowperwood gets around here very early Monday morning, say eight oreight-thirty, that it will be all right?”“I think so,” replied the sheriff, curiously nervous, but agreeable,anxious to please. “I don't think that anything will come up that willmake me want him earlier. If it does I'll let you know, and you canproduce him. I don't think so, though, Mr. Steger; I think everythingwill be all right.” They were once more in the main hall now. “Glad tohave seen you again, Mr. Steger--very glad,” he added. “Call again someday.”Waving the sheriff a pleasant farewell, he hurried on his way toCowperwood's house.You would not have thought, seeing Cowperwood mount the front steps ofhis handsome residence in his neat gray suit and well-cut overcoat onhis return from his office that evening, that he was thinking that thismight be his last night here. His air and walk indicated no weakeningof spirit. He entered the hall, where an early lamp was aglow, andencountered “Wash” Sims, an old negro factotum, who was just coming upfrom the basement, carrying a bucket of coal for one of the fireplaces.“Mahty cold out, dis evenin', Mistah Coppahwood,” said Wash, to whomanything less than sixty degrees was very cold. His one regret was thatPhiladelphia was not located in North Carolina, from whence he came.“'Tis sharp, Wash,” replied Cowperwood, absentmindedly. He was thinkingfor the moment of the house and how it had looked, as he came toward itwest along Girard Avenue--what the neighbors were thinking of him, too,observing him from time to time out of their windows. It was clear andcold. The lamps in the reception-hall and sitting-room had been lit, forhe had permitted no air of funereal gloom to settle down over thisplace since his troubles had begun. In the far west of the street a lasttingling gleam of lavender and violet was showing over the cold whitesnow of the roadway. The house of gray-green stone, with its lightedwindows, and cream-colored lace curtains, had looked especiallyattractive. He had thought for the moment of the pride he had taken inputting all this here, decorating and ornamenting it, and whether, ever,he could secure it for himself again. “Where is your mistress?” he addedto Wash, when he bethought himself.“In the sitting-room, Mr. Coppahwood, ah think.”Cowperwood ascended the stairs, thinking curiously that Wash would soonbe out of a job now, unless Mrs. Cowperwood, out of all the wreck ofother things, chose to retain him, which was not likely. He entered thesitting-room, and there sat his wife by the oblong center-table, sewinga hook and eye on one of Lillian, second's, petticoats. She lookedup, at his step, with the peculiarly uncertain smile she used thesedays--indication of her pain, fear, suspicion--and inquired, “Well, whatis new with you, Frank?” Her smile was something like a hat or belt orornament which one puts on or off at will.“Nothing in particular,” he replied, in his offhand way, “except that Iunderstand I have lost that appeal of mine. Steger is coming here ina little while to let me know. I had a note from him, and I fancy it'sabout that.”He did not care to say squarely that he had lost. He knew that she wassufficiently distressed as it was, and he did not care to be too abruptjust now.“You don't say!” replied Lillian, with surprise and fright in her voice,and getting up.She had been so used to a world where prisons were scarcely thought of,where things went on smoothly from day to day without any noticeableintrusion of such distressing things as courts, jails, and the like,that these last few months had driven her nearly mad. Cowperwood had sodefinitely insisted on her keeping in the background--he had told herso very little that she was all at sea anyhow in regard to the wholeprocedure. Nearly all that she had had in the way of intelligence hadbeen from his father and mother and Anna, and from a close and almostsecret scrutiny of the newspapers.At the time he had gone to the county jail she did not even knowanything about it until his father had come back from the court-room andthe jail and had broken the news to her. It had been a terrific blow toher. Now to have this thing suddenly broken to her in this offhand way,even though she had been expecting and dreading it hourly, was too much.She was still a decidedly charming-looking woman as she stood holdingher daughter's garment in her hand, even if she was forty years old toCowperwood's thirty-five. She was robed in one of the creations of theirlate prosperity, a cream-colored gown of rich silk, with dark browntrimmings--a fetching combination for her. Her eyes were a littlehollow, and reddish about the rims, but otherwise she showed no sign ofher keen mental distress. There was considerable evidence of the formertranquil sweetness that had so fascinated him ten years before.“Isn't that terrible?” she said, weakly, her hands trembling in anervous way. “Isn't it dreadful? Isn't there anything more you can do,truly? You won't really have to go to prison, will you?” He objectedto her distress and her nervous fears. He preferred a stronger, moreself-reliant type of woman, but still she was his wife, and in his dayhe had loved her much.“It looks that way, Lillian,” he said, with the first note of realsympathy he had used in a long while, for he felt sorry for her now. Atthe same time he was afraid to go any further along that line, for fearit might give her a false sense as to his present attitude toward herwhich was one essentially of indifference. But she was not so dull butwhat she could see that the consideration in his voice had been broughtabout by his defeat, which meant hers also. She choked a little--andeven so was touched. The bare suggestion of sympathy brought back theold days so definitely gone forever. If only they could be brought back!“I don't want you to feel distressed about me, though,” he went on,before she could say anything to him. “I'm not through with my fighting.I'll get out of this. I have to go to prison, it seems, in order to getthings straightened out properly. What I would like you to do is to keepup a cheerful appearance in front of the rest of the family--father andmother particularly. They need to be cheered up.” He thought once oftaking her hand, then decided not. She noted mentally his hesitation,the great difference between his attitude now and that of ten or twelveyears before. It did not hurt her now as much as she once would havethought. She looked at him, scarcely knowing what to say. There wasreally not so much to say.“Will you have to go soon, if you do have to go?” she ventured, wearily.“I can't tell yet. Possibly to-night. Possibly Friday. Possibly notuntil Monday. I'm waiting to hear from Steger. I expect him here anyminute.”To prison! To prison! Her Frank Cowperwood, her husband--the substanceof their home here--and all their soul destruction going to prison. Andeven now she scarcely grasped why! She stood there wondering what shecould do.“Is there anything I can get for you?” she asked, starting forward as ifout of a dream. “Do you want me to do anything? Don't you think perhapsyou had better leave Philadelphia, Frank? You needn't go to prisonunless you want to.”She was a little beside herself, for the first time in her life shockedout of a deadly calm.He paused and looked at her for a moment in his direct, examining way,his hard commercial business judgment restored on the instant.“That would be a confession of guilt, Lillian, and I'm not guilty,” he replied, almost coldly. “I haven't done anything that warrants myrunning away or going to prison, either. I'm merely going there to savetime at present. I can't be litigating this thing forever. I'll getout--be pardoned out or sued out in a reasonable length of time. Justnow it's better to go, I think. I wouldn't think of running away fromPhiladelphia. Two of five judges found for me in the decision. That'spretty fair evidence that the State has no case against me.”His wife saw she had made a mistake. It clarified her judgment onthe instant. “I didn't mean in that way, Frank,” she replied,apologetically. “You know I didn't. Of course I know you're not guilty.Why should I think you were, of all people?”She paused, expecting some retort, some further argument--a kind wordmaybe. A trace of the older, baffling love, but he had quietly turned tohis desk and was thinking of other things.At this point the anomaly of her own state came over her again. It wasall so sad and so hopeless. And what was she to do in the future? Andwhat was he likely to do? She paused half trembling and yet decided,because of her peculiarly nonresisting nature--why trespass on his time?Why bother? No good would really come of it. He really did not care forher any more--that was it. Nothing could make him, nothing could bringthem together again, not even this tragedy. He was interested in anotherwoman--Aileen--and so her foolish thoughts and explanations, her fear,sorrow, distress, were not important to him. He could take her agonizedwish for his freedom as a comment on his probable guilt, a doubt ofhis innocence, a criticism of him! She turned away for a minute, and hestarted to leave the room.“I'll be back again in a few moments,” he volunteered. “Are the childrenhere?”“Yes, they're up in the play-room,” she answered, sadly, utterlynonplussed and distraught.“Oh, Frank!” she had it on her lips to cry, but before she could utterit he had bustled down the steps and was gone. She turned back to thetable, her left hand to her mouth, her eyes in a queer, hazy, melancholymist. Could it be, she thought, that life could really come tothis--that love could so utterly, so thoroughly die? Ten yearsbefore--but, oh, why go back to that? Obviously it could, and thoughtsconcerning that would not help now. Twice now in her life her affairshad seemed to go to pieces--once when her first husband had died, andnow when her second had failed her, had fallen in love with another andwas going to be sent off to prison. What was it about her that causedsuch things? Was there anything wrong with her? What was she going todo? Where go? She had no idea, of course, for how long a term of yearshe would be sent away. It might be one year or it might be five years,as the papers had said. Good heavens! The children could almost come toforget him in five years. She put her other hand to her mouth, also, andthen to her forehead, where there was a dull ache. She tried to thinkfurther than this, but somehow, just now, there was no further thought.Suddenly quite outside of her own volition, with no thought that shewas going to do such a thing, her bosom began to heave, her throatcontracted in four or five short, sharp, aching spasms, her eyes burned,and she shook in a vigorous, anguished, desperate, almost one might havesaid dry-eyed, cry, so hot and few were the tears. She could not stopfor the moment, just stood there and shook, and then after a while adull ache succeeded, and she was quite as she had been before.“Why cry?” she suddenly asked herself, fiercely--for her. “Why breakdown in this stormy, useless way? Would it help?”But, in spite of her speculative, philosophic observations to herself,she still felt the echo, the distant rumble, as it were, of the storm inher own soul. “Why cry? Why not cry?” She might have said--but wouldn't,and in spite of herself and all her logic, she knew that this tempestwhich had so recently raged over her was now merely circling around hersoul's horizon and would return to break again.Chapter LThe arrival of Steger with the information that no move of any kindwould be made by the sheriff until Monday morning, when Cowperwood couldpresent himself, eased matters. This gave him time to think--to adjusthome details at his leisure. He broke the news to his father and motherin a consoling way and talked with his brothers and father about gettingmatters immediately adjusted in connection with the smaller houses towhich they were now shortly to be compelled to move. There was muchconferring among the different members of this collapsing organizationin regard to the minor details; and what with his conferences withSteger, his seeing personally Davison, Leigh, Avery Stone, of Jay Cooke& Co., George Waterman (his old-time employer Henry was dead),ex-State Treasurer Van Nostrand, who had gone out with the last Stateadministration, and others, he was very busy. Now that he was reallygoing into prison, he wanted his financial friends to get together andsee if they could get him out by appealing to the Governor. The divisionof opinion among the judges of the State Supreme Court was his excuseand strong point. He wanted Steger to follow this up, and he spared nopains in trying to see all and sundry who might be of use to him--EdwardTighe, of Tighe & Co., who was still in business in Third Street; NewtonTargool; Arthur Rivers; Joseph Zimmerman, the dry-goods prince, now amillionaire; Judge Kitchen; Terrence Relihan, the former representativeof the money element at Harrisburg; and many others.Cowperwood wanted Relihan to approach the newspapers and see if he couldnot readjust their attitude so as to work to get him out, and he wantedWalter Leigh to head the movement of getting up a signed petition whichshould contain all the important names of moneyed people and others,asking the Governor to release him. Leigh agreed to this heartily, asdid Relihan, and many others.And, afterwards there was really nothing else to do, unless it was tosee Aileen once more, and this, in the midst of his other complicationsand obligations, seemed all but impossible at times--and yet he didachieve that, too--so eager was he to be soothed and comforted by theignorant and yet all embracing volume of her love. Her eyes these days!The eager, burning quest of him and his happiness that blazed inthem. To think that he should be tortured so--her Frank! Oh, sheknew--whatever he said, and however bravely and jauntily he talked. Tothink that her love for him should have been the principal cause of hisbeing sent to jail, as she now believed. And the cruelty of her father!And the smallness of his enemies--that fool Stener, for instance, whosepictures she had seen in the papers. Actually, whenever in the presenceof her Frank, she fairly seethed in a chemic agony for him--her strong,handsome lover--the strongest, bravest, wisest, kindest, handsomest manin the world. Oh, didn't she know! And Cowperwood, looking in her eyesand realizing this reasonless, if so comforting fever for him, smiledand was touched. Such love! That of a dog for a master; that of a motherfor a child. And how had he come to evoke it? He could not say, but itwas beautiful.And so, now, in these last trying hours, he wished to see her much--anddid--meeting her at least four times in the month in which he had beenfree, between his conviction and the final dismissal of his appeal. Hehad one last opportunity of seeing her--and she him--just before hisentrance into prison this last time--on the Saturday before the Mondayof his sentence. He had not come in contact with her since the decisionof the Supreme Court had been rendered, but he had had a letter from hersent to a private mail-box, and had made an appointment for Saturday ata small hotel in Camden, which, being across the river, was safer, inhis judgment, than anything in Philadelphia. He was a little uncertainas to how she would take the possibility of not seeing him soon againafter Monday, and how she would act generally once he was where shecould not confer with him as often as she chose. And in consequence, hewas anxious to talk to her. But on this occasion, as he anticipated, andeven feared, so sorry for her was he, she was not less emphatic in herprotestations than she had ever been; in fact, much more so. When shesaw him approaching in the distance, she went forward to meet him inthat direct, forceful way which only she could attempt with him, a sortof mannish impetuosity which he both enjoyed and admired, and slippingher arms around his neck, said: “Honey, you needn't tell me. I saw itin the papers the other morning. Don't you mind, honey. I love you.I'll wait for you. I'll be with you yet, if it takes a dozen years ofwaiting. It doesn't make any difference to me if it takes a hundred,only I'm so sorry for you, sweetheart. I'll be with you every daythrough this, darling, loving you with all my might.”She caressed him while he looked at her in that quiet way whichbetokened at once his self-poise and yet his interest and satisfactionin her. He couldn't help loving Aileen, he thought who could? She wasso passionate, vibrant, desireful. He couldn't help admiring hertremendously, now more than ever, because literally, in spite of all hisintellectual strength, he really could not rule her. She went at him,even when he stood off in a calm, critical way, as if he wereher special property, her toy. She would talk to him always, andparticularly when she was excited, as if he were just a baby, her pet;and sometimes he felt as though she would really overcome him mentally,make him subservient to her, she was so individual, so sure of herimportance as a woman.Now on this occasion she went babbling on as if he were broken-hearted,in need of her greatest care and tenderness, although he really wasn'tat all; and for the moment she actually made him feel as though he was.“It isn't as bad as that, Aileen,” he ventured to say, eventually; andwith a softness and tenderness almost unusual for him, even where shewas concerned, but she went on forcefully, paying no heed to him.“Oh, yes, it is, too, honey. I know. Oh, my poor Frank! But I'll seeyou. I know how to manage, whatever happens. How often do they letvisitors come out to see the prisoners there?”“Only once in three months, pet, so they say, but I think we can fixthat after I get there; only do you think you had better try to comeright away, Aileen? You know what the feeling now is. Hadn't you betterwait a while? Aren't you in danger of stirring up your father? He mightcause a lot of trouble out there if he were so minded.”“Only once in three months!” she exclaimed, with rising emphasis, ashe began this explanation. “Oh, Frank, no! Surely not! Once in threemonths! Oh, I can't stand that! I won't! I'll go and see the wardenmyself. He'll let me see you. I'm sure he will, if I talk to him.”She fairly gasped in her excitement, not willing to pause in her tirade,but Cowperwood interposed with her, “You're not thinking what you'resaying, Aileen. You're not thinking. Remember your father! Remember yourfamily! Your father may know the warden out there. You don't want it toget all over town that you're running out there to see me, do you? Yourfather might cause you trouble. Besides you don't know the small partypoliticians as I do. They gossip like a lot of old women. You'll have tobe very careful what you do and how you do it. I don't want to lose you.I want to see you. But you'll have to mind what you're doing. Don't tryto see me at once. I want you to, but I want to find out how the landlies, and I want you to find out too. You won't lose me. I'll be there,well enough.”He paused as he thought of the long tier of iron cells which must bethere, one of which would be his--for how long?--and of Aileen seeinghim through the door of it or in it. At the same time he was thinking,in spite of all his other calculations, how charming she was lookingto-day. How young she kept, and how forceful! While he was nearing hisfull maturity she was a comparatively young girl, and as beautiful asever. She was wearing a black-and-white-striped silk in the curiousbustle style of the times, and a set of sealskin furs, including alittle sealskin cap set jauntily on top her red-gold hair.“I know, I know,” replied Aileen, firmly. “But think of three months!Honey, I can't! I won't! It's nonsense. Three months! I know thatmy father wouldn't have to wait any three months if he wanted to seeanybody out there, nor anybody else that he wanted to ask favors for.And I won't, either. I'll find some way.”Cowperwood had to smile. You could not defeat Aileen so easily.“But you're not your father, honey; and you don't want him to know.”“I know I don't, but they don't need to know who I am. I can go heavilyveiled. I don't think that the warden knows my father. He may. Anyhow,he doesn't know me; and he wouldn't tell on me if he did if I talked tohim.”Her confidence in her charms, her personality, her earthly privilegeswas quite anarchistic. Cowperwood shook his head.“Honey, you're about the best and the worst there is when it comes to awoman,” he observed, affectionately, pulling her head down to kissher, “but you'll have to listen to me just the same. I have a lawyer,Steger--you know him. He's going to take up this matter with the wardenout there--is doing it today. He may be able to fix things, and he maynot. I'll know to-morrow or Sunday, and I'll write you. But don't go anddo anything rash until you hear. I'm sure I can cut that visiting limitin half, and perhaps down to once a month or once in two weeks even.They only allow me to write one letter in three months”--Aileen explodedagain--“and I'm sure I can have that made different--some; but don'twrite me until you hear, or at least don't sign any name or put anyaddress in. They open all mail and read it. If you see me or write meyou'll have to be cautious, and you're not the most cautious person inthe world. Now be good, will you?”They talked much more--of his family, his court appearance Monday,whether he would get out soon to attend any of the suits still pending,or be pardoned. Aileen still believed in his future. She had read theopinions of the dissenting judges in his favor, and that of thethree agreed judges against him. She was sure his day was not over inPhiladelphia, and that he would some time reestablish himself and thentake her with him somewhere else. She was sorry for Mrs. Cowperwood, butshe was convinced that she was not suited to him--that Frank needed someone more like herself, some one with youth and beauty and force--her, noless. She clung to him now in ecstatic embraces until it was time to go.So far as a plan of procedure could have been adjusted in a situation soincapable of accurate adjustment, it had been done. She was desperatelydowncast at the last moment, as was he, over their parting; but shepulled herself together with her usual force and faced the dark futurewith a steady eye.Chapter LIMonday came and with it his final departure. All that could be done hadbeen done. Cowperwood said his farewells to his mother and father,his brothers and sister. He had a rather distant but sensible andmatter-of-fact talk with his wife. He made no special point of sayinggood-by to his son or his daughter; when he came in on Thursday, Friday,Saturday, and Sunday evenings, after he had learned that he was todepart Monday, it was with the thought of talking to them a little inan especially affectionate way. He realized that his general moral orunmoral attitude was perhaps working them a temporary injustice. Stillhe was not sure. Most people did fairly well with their lives, whethercoddled or deprived of opportunity. These children would probably do aswell as most children, whatever happened--and then, anyhow, he had nointention of forsaking them financially, if he could help it. He didnot want to separate his wife from her children, nor them from her. Sheshould keep them. He wanted them to be comfortable with her. He wouldlike to see them, wherever they were with her, occasionally. Onlyhe wanted his own personal freedom, in so far as she and they wereconcerned, to go off and set up a new world and a new home with Aileen.So now on these last days, and particularly this last Sunday night, hewas rather noticeably considerate of his boy and girl, without being tooopenly indicative of his approaching separation from them.“Frank,” he said to his notably lackadaisical son on this occasion,“aren't you going to straighten up and be a big, strong, healthy fellow?You don't play enough. You ought to get in with a gang of boys and be aleader. Why don't you fit yourself up a gymnasium somewhere and see howstrong you can get?”They were in the senior Cowperwood's sitting-room, where they had allrather consciously gathered on this occasion.Lillian, second, who was on the other side of the big library table fromher father, paused to survey him and her brother with interest. Bothhad been carefully guarded against any real knowledge of their father'saffairs or his present predicament. He was going away on a journey forabout a month or so they understood. Lillian was reading in a Chatterboxbook which had been given her the previous Christmas.“He won't do anything,” she volunteered, looking up from her reading ina peculiarly critical way for her. “Why, he won't ever run races with mewhen I want him to.”“Aw, who wants to run races with you, anyhow?” returned Frank, junior,sourly. “You couldn't run if I did want to run with you.”“Couldn't I?” she replied. “I could beat you, all right.”“Lillian!” pleaded her mother, with a warning sound in her voice.Cowperwood smiled, and laid his hand affectionately on his son's head.“You'll be all right, Frank,” he volunteered, pinching his ear lightly.“Don't worry--just make an effort.”The boy did not respond as warmly as he hoped. Later in the evening Mrs.Cowperwood noticed that her husband squeezed his daughter's slim littlewaist and pulled her curly hair gently. For the moment she was jealousof her daughter.“Going to be the best kind of a girl while I'm away?” he said to her,privately.“Yes, papa,” she replied, brightly.“That's right,” he returned, and leaned over and kissed her mouthtenderly. “Button Eyes,” he said.Mrs. Cowperwood sighed after he had gone. “Everything for the children,nothing for me,” she thought, though the children had not got so vastlymuch either in the past.Cowperwood's attitude toward his mother in this final hour was aboutas tender and sympathetic as any he could maintain in this world. Heunderstood quite clearly the ramifications of her interests, and how shewas suffering for him and all the others concerned. He had not forgottenher sympathetic care of him in his youth; and if he could have doneanything to have spared her this unhappy breakdown of her fortunes inher old age, he would have done so. There was no use crying over spilledmilk. It was impossible at times for him not to feel intensely inmoments of success or failure; but the proper thing to do was to bearup, not to show it, to talk little and go your way with an air not somuch of resignation as of self-sufficiency, to whatever was awaitingyou. That was his attitude on this morning, and that was what heexpected from those around him--almost compelled, in fact, by his ownattitude.“Well, mother,” he said, genially, at the last moment--he would not lether nor his wife nor his sister come to court, maintaining that it wouldmake not the least difference to him and would only harrow their ownfeelings uselessly--“I'm going now. Don't worry. Keep up your spirits.”He slipped his arm around his mother's waist, and she gave him a long,unrestrained, despairing embrace and kiss.“Go on, Frank,” she said, choking, when she let him go. “God bless you.I'll pray for you.” He paid no further attention to her. He didn't dare.“Good-by, Lillian,” he said to his wife, pleasantly, kindly. “I'll beback in a few days, I think. I'll be coming out to attend some of thesecourt proceedings.”To his sister he said: “Good-by, Anna. Don't let the others get toodown-hearted.”“I'll see you three afterward,” he said to his father and brothers; andso, dressed in the very best fashion of the time, he hurried down intothe reception-hall, where Steger was waiting, and was off. His family,hearing the door close on him, suffered a poignant sense of desolation.They stood there for a moment, his mother crying, his father lookingas though he had lost his last friend but making a great effort to seemself-contained and equal to his troubles, Anna telling Lillian not tomind, and the latter staring dumbly into the future, not knowing whatto think. Surely a brilliant sun had set on their local scene, and in avery pathetic way.Chapter LIIWhen Cowperwood reached the jail, Jaspers was there, glad to see him butprincipally relieved to feel that nothing had happened to mar hisown reputation as a sheriff. Because of the urgency of court mattersgenerally, it was decided to depart for the courtroom at nine o'clock.Eddie Zanders was once more delegated to see that Cowperwood was broughtsafely before Judge Payderson and afterward taken to the penitentiary.All of the papers in the case were put in his care to be delivered tothe warden.“I suppose you know,” confided Sheriff Jaspers to Steger, “that Steneris here. He ain't got no money now, but I gave him a private room justthe same. I didn't want to put a man like him in no cell.” SheriffJaspers sympathized with Stener.“That's right. I'm glad to hear that,” replied Steger, smiling tohimself.“I didn't suppose from what I've heard that Mr. Cowperwood would want tomeet Stener here, so I've kept 'em apart. George just left a minute agowith another deputy.”“That's good. That's the way it ought to be,” replied Steger. He wasglad for Cowperwood's sake that the sheriff had so much tact. EvidentlyGeorge and the sheriff were getting along in a very friendly way, forall the former's bitter troubles and lack of means.The Cowperwood party walked, the distance not being great, and as theydid so they talked of rather simple things to avoid the more serious.“Things aren't going to be so bad,” Edward said to his father. “Stegersays the Governor is sure to pardon Stener in a year or less, and if hedoes he's bound to let Frank out too.”Cowperwood, the elder, had heard this over and over, but he was nevertired of hearing it. It was like some simple croon with which babies arehushed to sleep. The snow on the ground, which was enduring remarkablywell for this time of year, the fineness of the day, which had startedout to be clear and bright, the hope that the courtroom might not befull, all held the attention of the father and his two sons. Cowperwood,senior, even commented on some sparrows fighting over a piece ofbread, marveling how well they did in winter, solely to ease hismind. Cowperwood, walking on ahead with Steger and Zanders, talked ofapproaching court proceedings in connection with his business and whatought to be done.When they reached the court the same little pen in which Cowperwood hadawaited the verdict of his jury several months before was waiting toreceive him.Cowperwood, senior, and his other sons sought places in the courtroomproper. Eddie Zanders remained with his charge. Stener and a deputy bythe name of Wilkerson were in the room; but he and Cowperwood pretendednow not to see each other. Frank had no objection to talking to hisformer associate, but he could see that Stener was diffident andashamed. So he let the situation pass without look or word of any kind.After some three-quarters of an hour of dreary waiting the door leadinginto the courtroom proper opened and a bailiff stepped in.“All prisoners up for sentence,” he called.There were six, all told, including Cowperwood and Stener. Two of themwere confederate housebreakers who had been caught red-handed at theirmidnight task.Another prisoner was no more and no less than a plain horse-thief, ayoung man of twenty-six, who had been convicted by a jury of stealinga grocer's horse and selling it. The last man was a negro, a tall,shambling, illiterate, nebulous-minded black, who had walked off withan apparently discarded section of lead pipe which he had found in alumber-yard. His idea was to sell or trade it for a drink. He reallydid not belong in this court at all; but, having been caught by anundersized American watchman charged with the care of the property, andhaving at first refused to plead guilty, not quite understanding whatwas to be done with him, he had been perforce bound over to this courtfor trial. Afterward he had changed his mind and admitted his guilt, sohe now had to come before Judge Payderson for sentence or dismissal.The lower court before which he had originally been brought had lostjurisdiction by binding him over to to higher court for trial.Eddie Zanders, in his self-appointed position as guide and mentor toCowperwood, had confided nearly all of this data to him as he stoodwaiting.The courtroom was crowded. It was very humiliating to Cowperwood to haveto file in this way along the side aisle with these others, followed byStener, well dressed but sickly looking and disconsolate.The negro, Charles Ackerman, was the first on the list.“How is it this man comes before me?” asked Payderson, peevishly, whenhe noted the value of the property Ackerman was supposed to have stolen.“Your honor,” the assistant district attorney explained, promptly,“this man was before a lower court and refused, because he was drunk,or something, to plead guilty. The lower court, because the complainantwould not forego the charge, was compelled to bind him over to thiscourt for trial. Since then he has changed his mind and has admittedhis guilt to the district attorney. He would not be brought before youexcept we have no alternative. He has to be brought here now in order toclear the calendar.”Judge Payderson stared quizzically at the negro, who, obviously not verymuch disturbed by this examination, was leaning comfortably on the gateor bar before which the average criminal stood erect and terrified.He had been before police-court magistrates before on one charge andanother--drunkenness, disorderly conduct, and the like--but his wholeattitude was one of shambling, lackadaisical, amusing innocence.“Well, Ackerman,” inquired his honor, severely, “did you or did you notsteal this piece of lead pipe as charged here--four dollars and eightycents' worth?”“Yassah, I did,” he began. “I tell you how it was, jedge. I was a-comin'along past dat lumber-yard one Saturday afternoon, and I hadn't beenwuckin', an' I saw dat piece o' pipe thoo de fence, lyin' inside, and Ijes' reached thoo with a piece o' boad I found dey and pulled it overto me an' tuck it. An' aftahwahd dis Mistah Watchman man”--he waved hishand oratorically toward the witness-chair, where, in case the judgemight wish to ask him some questions, the complainant had taken hisstand--“come around tuh where I live an' accused me of done takin' it.”“But you did take it, didn't you?”“Yassah, I done tuck it.”“What did you do with it?”“I traded it foh twenty-five cents.”“You mean you sold it,” corrected his honor.“Yassah, I done sold it.”“Well, don't you know it's wrong to do anything like that? Didn't youknow when you reached through that fence and pulled that pipe over toyou that you were stealing? Didn't you?”“Yassah, I knowed it was wrong,” replied Ackerman, sheepishly. “I didn'think 'twuz stealin' like zackly, but I done knowed it was wrong. I doneknowed I oughtn' take it, I guess.”“Of course you did. Of course you did. That's just it. You knew you werestealing, and still you took it. 